
a heroic 
idea was
born
annual report 2018
at a glance
annual report 2018
delivery hero 
at a glance
group orders1 +49% 
to 369 million
248 369 
orders (million) 
2017 2018
3,131 4,454
gmv2 (eur million)
2017 2018
417  687
revenues¹, ² (eur million) 
letter from the ceo  4
2017 2018
our upgraded vision  8
–100 –46
report of the supervisory board  16
adj. ebitda (eur million) 
corporate governance  22 2018 2017
nonfinancial statement for the group  46
combined management report  56
consolidated financial statements  88
responsibility statement  154
independent auditor’s report  155
gri content index  161 1 the reported figures have been adjusted for material m&a and exclude the divestment of india, divestment of foodora (australia, france, italy & netherlands) and 
germany as a discontinued operation. germany revenues were € 21.4 million in q1ʼ17, € 21.7 million in q2ʼ17, € 22.7 million in q3ʼ17 and € 24.3 million in q4ʼ17, 
further information  164 € 25.5 million in q1ʼ18, € 24.7 million for q2ʼ18, € 25.9 million for q3ʼ18 and € 29.2 million for q4ʼ18. india revenues were € 2.3 million in q1ʼ17, € 2.6 million in q2ʼ17, 
€2.5 million in q3ʼ17 and € 2.5 million in q4ʼ17. foodora revenues were € 6.3 million for q3ʼ17 and € 7.6 million for q4ʼ17, € 7.4 million in q1ʼ18, € 7.1 million for  
q2ʼ18 and € 3.9 million for q3ʼ18 and € 0.7 million for q4ʼ18. numbers have not been adjusted for smaller acquisitions or divestments. revenues presented for 
 delivery hero represent the total segment revenues prior to vouchers.
2  americas revenues and gmv as well as the respective growth rates are impacted by the argentinian operations qualifying as hyperinflationary economy according 
2 to ias 29 beginning september 1, 2018. 2018 revenue and gmv is retrospectively adjusted. comparability is affected as prior period information is not restated. 
oant  aa  mgliasnsicoen 
annual report 2018
delivery hero europe orders +41%  asia orders +50% 
to 60 million to 83 million
at a glance
43  60  55 83 
orders (million)  orders (million) 
2017 2018 2017 2018
547  735 844 1,214
gmv (eur million) 2017 2018 gmv (eur million) 2017 2018
89 116 127 193
revenues¹ (eur million)  revenues¹ (eur million) 
2017 2018 2017 2018
–16  –15
–52 –28
adj. ebitda (eur million)  adj. ebitda (eur million) 
2017 2018
2018 2017
americas orders +31% 
mena orders +55% 
to 36 million
to 191 million
28  36 
123  191  orders (million) 
orders (million) 
20172018
2017 2018 370 406
1,370 2,100
gmv² (eur million)
gmv (eur million)  2017 2018
2017 2018
47 62
153  316 revenues² (eur million) 
revenues (eur million)
2017 2018
2017 2018
–51 –25
18 24 adj. ebitda (eur million) 
adj. ebitda (eur million) 
2018 2017
20182017
3
letter from the ceo
annual report 2018
letter from  
the ceo
dear shareholders, dear colleagues, dear readers,
 
2018 was another fantastic year for us. we were able to 
accelerate growth and reached several important mile-
stones. in 2018, for the first time we processed more 
than 1.5 million orders (including germany) in one day 
globally. over the course of the year our gmv amounted 
to eur 4.5bn (excluding germany) and our segment rev-
enues to eur 687 million. iʼm incredibly proud that we 
were able to build the company that it is today through 
entrepreneurial drive and relentless focus on delivering 
an amazing experience for our customers. 
yet despite those achievements, weʼre only scratching the 
surface of the global opportunity we have ahead of us. 
while awareness and consumer demand for our services 
has never been higher, many customers do not order food 
and other items to their homes yet. and of those who do 
order food, roughly 90% still call the restaurants for a add 
directly. while this is certainly true for almost all markets 
globally, it is even more so for delivery hero. our global 
footprint is focussed particularly on more early stage 
markets providing room for growth for the next decades.
 
4
letotenr  afr momis stihoen c eo
annual report 2018
while food delivery is and will remain the core pillar of  globally for that purpose, ranging from ideas to help 
our business, we also follow our customersʼ demands for  restaurants utilising their capacity better, to expanding 
an increasing offering of convenience services. consum- into dedicated delivery kitchens and completely re-think-
ers have ever higher expectations of services like ours  ing how a delivery-focused restaurant should work. i am 
and because of this we are focusing more and more on  sure we will have more exciting news to share on this 
broader on-demand needs. we have therefore upgraded  over the next years.
our vision accordingly to: always delivering amazing   
experiences – fast, easy and to your door. on the corporate development side, we have always 
  made it very clear that we are pragmatic around con-
initially, this expansion of services will be focused on cat- solidation and focus on those markets in which we 
egories like groceries, flowers and pharma. currently, we  can build strong leadership positions. we have there-
operate these services in the latin america and mena  fore taken strategic decisions to exit those markets in 
regions and see promising results. in 2018 we rolled out  which we didnʼt see the potential for market leading 
multi-vertical delivery platforms in 9 countries. we see  positions at reasonable investment levels, and focused  
a strong customer demand and this encourages us to  our investments on markets where we operate mar-
continue to develop those services further. besides the  ket-leading brands. 
focus on our customersʼ needs, this also allows us to uti-
lize our delivery fleets better, which results in even more  while the vast majority of our growth is organic, we were 
efficient logistics. also able to strengthen our market position through 
  smaller acquisitions of complementary marketplace oper-
besides the horizontal expansion to more services for our  ations in various countries. in terms of disposals, the sale 
customers, weʼre also expanding our efforts to transform  of our hungryhouse business closed already in early 2018. 
the food delivery ecosystem by working more closely with  moreover, we also succeeded in divesting our foodora 
our restaurant partners. we see that, as food delivery  operations in italy, france, netherlands and australia. 
matures in some urban areas, some restaurants start to  finally, we successfully closed the sale of our german 
be overwhelmed with the demand from our customers  operations to takeaway.com in december 2018. this 
while some more rural towns still have a more limited  transaction enables us to strengthen our global footprint, 
food delivery offering. we are therefore always looking  increase our focus on key growth regions and reinforce 
for new ways to partner with and support our restaurant  our leadership positions. we also used this opportunity 
partners. we are exploring several different approaches  to upgrade our 2019 investment plan and allocate more 
5
letter from the ceo
annual report 2018
90
occasions for ordering  
food every month 
capital towards investment opportunities across our seg- our vision. as of today, we deliver more orders than all 
ments at attractive returns with a net adj. ebitda impact  competitors in our markets combined and have created 
of negative €250m. a clear global leadership in own delivery. iʼm immensely 
proud of our team to have achieved this in such a short 
we already see promising initial results in the first quar- period of time.
ter of 2019 on these increased investments. these results   
affirm our strong believe that this is the right path for  as the market for food ordering is maturing, shifting 
the company in order to build the most valuable busi- more online and improving in service quality, there is 
ness over the long-term. in this sense, our entrepreneur- truly enormous potential for further growth. even i con-
ial mindset today is still the same as it was when the busi- tinue to be amazed by the size and continued expansion 
ness was founded in 2011 and drives us to pursue the  of this market opportunity. looking at the order pene-
ever expanding opportunities we see.  tration in some of our best cities we even see markets a 
  presence of 10+ years in online food delivery continuing 
while the marketplace business still represents roughly  to grow at a fast pace. as mentioned above, this leads 
80% of our overall business, our share of own delivery  me to believe that we have barely scratched the surface 
orders is constantly growing. by pursuing our hybrid  of what is possible. there are at least 90 occasions for 
business model strategy we can add significantly more  ordering food every month – breakfast, lunch, and dinner 
restaurants to our platform (both with and without their  every day on 30 days a month – for each and every one 
own delivery capabilities) and deliver to our customers  of our customers. even in markets with very high order 
what they are demanding in each of the neighborhoods  densities, frequencies do not exceed high single digits 
we operate in. the fast growth rate of our own delivery  per active customer per month. if we just increase the 
capabilities is driven by our customersʼ increased demand  average frequency by a little each year, this will be a huge 
for fast, highly reliable and traceable order fulfillment –  lever on the opportunity and the tam that we initially 
something we aim to provide with every order that we  indicated at time of ipo. if we continuously improve our 
execute ourselves and a principle that is ingrained in  ordering experience, choice of restaurants, affordability, 
6
letotenr  afr momis stihoen c eo
annual report 2018
speed of delivery and even add new ordering occasions  need in order to give back to the community and imple-
to our services, iʼm sure we will be able to achieve that. mented a volunteering program that saw huge engage-
  ment from our employees. beyond that we started invest-
looking at 2018 we already see great progress on all of  ing into understanding our environmental footprint as 
these operational elements. to mention just a few of  an organisation and how we can reduce that. lastly, we 
these achievements: set up a broad program to improve the diversity and 
inclusion of our work environment. besides the moral 
imperative of creating an environment where everyone 
•  we grew the number of restaurants by 53% y-o-y 
feels welcome, i also believe it is a business imperative 
(excluding germany) to expand choice for our cus-
to attract and retain the very best people on our contin-
tomers
ued growth journey.
• w  e migrated 8 operations onto our global platforms to 
 
allow for a more seamless ordering experience
with that, i would like to thank you for your trust in our 
•  we improved our restaurant integration with the roll out 
leadership team and ca. 21,000 colleagues who will con-
of our restaurant partner solution globally for improved 
tinue to work hard to deliver and to revolutionize a mar-
reliability of order transmission
ket with the trillion dollar food opportunity that is still 
•  we deployed our personalized recommendation in 23 
very much in its infancy. 2019 will be another big year 
countries to help customers navigate our restaurant 
for us with even bigger opportunities as we continue 
selection to focus on always delivering amazing experiences for 
  our customers.
beyond that, i am exceptionally proud of my fellow   
heroes for making huge progress in terms of corporate  yours,
social responsibility, a topic that is very close to my heart.  niklas
in 2018, we handed out numerous free meals to people in   
7
our vision
annual report 2018
our upgraded  
vision
our successful business performance has continued to be the result of our strong  
vision and unwavering focus on providing an amazing on-demand experience.  
we continually invest to improve our food and restaurant selection, but throughout  
2018 we also focused on expanding a more holistic ordering service.
 
as a result, 2018 saw us roll out many new features and additional products,  
driving trends we saw developing in the delivery sector. this continuous focus  
on innovation will ensure we are able to provide our customers with the most  
convenient, personalized ordering experience.
 
we are particularly proud to hold innovation at the core of our culture, as it is  
our key strength when it comes to tackling the market opportunity. 
our vision to always deliver amazing experiences, is driven by investment in three  
significant pillars: global leadership, product and technology.
8
europe asia
 
13  10 
countries countries
   
103m  663m 
total  total 
population population
67% 68%
urban  urban 
our upgraded   population  population 
austria/bosnia and herzegovina/
bangladesh/brunei/hong kong/
bulgaria/croatia/czech  
malasia/pakistan/philipines/ 
republic/finland/greece/ 
south korea/singapore/ 
vision hungary/montenegro/norway/  taiwan/thailand 
romania/serbia/sweden
americas
mena
9 
9 
countries
countries
225m 
242m 
total 
total 
population
population
78%
82%
urban 
urban 
population 
population 
argentina/canada/chile/colombia/ 
ecuador/panama/paraguay/peru/uruguay bahrain/jordan/egypt/kuwait/oman/ 
qatar/saudi arabia/uae/turkey 
9
source: world development indicators, 2018; rounded figures 
excluding countries with minority participation that are not fully consolidated (e.g. poland) and (planned) divestments e.g. germany and foodora non-core assets (australia, france, italy and netherlands) 
increased market opportunities
annual report 2018
increased market  
opportunity 
throughout 2018 we continued to see our market opportunities 
expand globally due to the fact that many countries we operate  
in still have low online penetration – a figure which has not changed 
from the low teen levels we outlined at time of ipo – with the  
majority of orders still being placed via the telephone. 
being at the forefront of the ongoing channel-shift puts us at a strong 
competitive advantage, with a much longer growth runway than 
other food delivery peers. 
we have also seen the overall market opportunity expand due to:
1. an increased demand for convenience
2. a  n increased number of restaurants and cuisines available  
on our platform
3. i mproved food quality and lower prices, driven by more  
efficient restaurant operations and so called “shared  
kitchens” and “virtual kitchens”
10
increased market opportunities
annual report 2018
increased market  
opportunity 
11
gloonba al  lmeaisdseirosnh ip
annual report 2018
global 
leadership
delivery hero is a global leader in online food delivery,  
with a larger reach and greater scale than competitors  
in all markets of operation. outside of south korea, norway 
and canada, we now fulfill three times as many orders than  
all our competitors combined in our markets of operation.  
in 2018, we are the #1 leader in 33 of our 41 countries  
with approximately 80% of gmv comingfrom these  
leadership countries.
12
gloonba al  lmeaisdseiorsnh ip
annual report 2018
290,000
listed restaurants
per q4 2018 we processed on average more than 36 million orders per  
month – more than 3 times as much as our competitorsʼ orders combined  
(including takeaway.com, ubereats, deliveroo, grab, just eat, zomato and  
additional local competitors) in our countries of operation outside of  
south korea, norway and canada. 
in 2018 we substantially expanded our restaurant selection, closing the year  
with more than 290,000 active restaurants listed across our platforms globally  
and we operate in more than 4,000 cities.  
 
we were able to reach this figure thanks to building our clear leadership in  
own-delivery, enabling us to partner with restaurants without their own fleets.  
per q4 2018, our delivery riders delivered more than 7 million orders per month  
in over 200 cities. outside of south korea, norway and canada, we now fulfill  
twice as much own delivery orders than all our competitors combined in our  
markets of operation1.
by taking this hybrid approach (combining both marketplace and our own logistical 
capabilities) we continued to develop highly efficient operations, enabling us to 
reduce delivery costs. we now have a similar profit contribution per order when  
we provide first-party delivery or third-party delivery, once our operations are up  
to scale. 
as we continue to improve efficiencies further we will pass saving down to our  
customers to drive additional frequency and adoption.
1  management estimates in delivery hero markets. excluding orders from south korea, norway, canada   13
and our minority holdings rappi and glovo.
product offering
annual report 2018
improved product  
and technology
 
adding high frequency products
one of our major focuses in 2018 was the expansion  
of our product offering and securing our status as a  
third generation delivery company. developments in  
proprietary technology and executional capabilities  
allowed us to expand into new verticals such a groceries, 
pharmacies and flowers and other convenience articles  
in multiple markets. throughout 2018 we rolled out  
multi-vertical delivery platforms in 9 countries. 
adding virtual kitchens
although still in the early days, 2018 saw us gain  
good traction in the concept and shared kitchen  
space, which we rolled out in selected cities globally.  
by offering specifically for delivery prepared, good  
quality food in better quality packaging, these  
concepts allow us to lever our operational expertise  
and achieve more efficient cost structures, which benefit  
customers, restaurants and us as intermediaries. 
14
proond uac mt oisfsfieornin g
annual report 2018
innovation for the restaurant
we aim to provide our partners with the most innovative  
technology available (restaurant partner solution – rps)  
to enable them to reach their full potential for our mutual  
advantage. we increase their order volumes, give them  
access to new customers, improve their efficiency, and add  
revenue at improved margins. moreover, restaurants benefit  
from the data which delivery hero is aggregating, allowing  
them to take better decisions on customer offerings, pricing, 
location and menu items. 
included in our rps is our point-of-sale technology. this  
allows restaurants to enter in their walk-in orders and helps  
them to better understand their business and drive further  
efficiencies in the restaurant. 
throughout 2018 we improved our rps integration, which  
is now live globally. as we continue to improve rps coverage,  
the technology will give us more holistic exposure to data, 
which, in turn, will enable us to drive further efficiencies and 
improve both our partnersʼ and customersʼ experience.
continuous innovation
we are driving industry change, and continually iterating  
our technology. in 2018 we developed voice ordering,  
which has been integrated into virtual assistants, corporate 
 platforms and our chat applications to further improve  
customer experience. in 2018, we further focussed on 
 personalization features, which are now deployed in  
23 countries.
15
report of the  supervisory board 
annual report 2018
report of the 
 supervisory board
dear shareholders,
the financial year 2018 was a significant and successful 
year for delivery hero se (the “company”), and one in 
which the company reached several impressive milestones. 
thanks to consistent strong growth, the delivery hero 
group has developed an outstanding, global market posi-
tion, with the group now taking over 100 million orders 
per quarter. noteworthy, in particular, are the successful 
conversion of the companyʼs form to a european joint stock 
corporation (societas europaea, se), being admitted the 
mdax for the deutsche börseʼs prime standard, the first 
annual general meeting and the sale of operations in 
germany.
conversion into an se
with the conversion of the companyʼs legal form into  
a european joint stock corporation (societas europaea, se) 
on july 13, 2018, the first supervisory board of delivery  
hero se has begun its work. the se regulation, the 
delivery hero se articles of association, and the agreement 
on the involvement of employees in delivery hero se on 
april 16, 2018 determined the composition and size of the 
super visory board. the delivery hero se supervisory board 
16
report of the  supervisory board 
annual report 2018
is comprised of six members and is represented with three  management, and compliance, at regular intervals and  in the balance sheet meeting on april 24, 2018, the super-
shareholder representatives and three employee represen- also, when necessary, at short notice.  visory board examined the annual and consolidated 
tatives. the supervisory boardʼs employee representatives  financial statements, including the group management 
were selected by the employeesʼ special negotiation body. during the financial year 2018, the supervisory board   report for the financial year 2017, and discussed them in 
held seven meetings and eleven conference calls. the  detail with the auditors. the auditor reported on the main 
cooperation between management   supervisory board adopted fifteen resolutions in writing.  results of the audit. in addition, the supervisory board 
and supervisory board examined the nonfinancial statement for the group and 
the supervisory board duly and carefully complied with  mr. patrick kolek was unable to attend one meeting in  dealt with the supervisory board report. in accordance 
the duties and recommendations imposed on it by law, the  person and ms. hilary gosher was unable to attend two  with the recommendation of the audit committee, the 
articles of association, the rules of procedure and the  meetings in person, but both participated in these meet- supervisory board approved the annual financial state-
german corporate governance code. the supervisory  ings by conference call. mr. semih yalcin was unable to  ments, the consolidated financial statements and the group 
board was at all times comprehensively involved in man- attend one conference call meeting, but submitted his vote  management report for 2017 during a conference call on 
agement board affairs and decisions of key importance to  in writing. in addition, he left one conference call meeting  april 25, 2018. thus the annual financial statements were 
the company from an early stage onwards. the manage- early. all other members of the supervisory board attend- adopted. in addition, the supervisory board adopted the 
ment board regularly reported to the supervisory board  ed all meetings and conference call meetings during their  agenda for the 2018 annual general meeting. further, the 
extensively on the position, strategic planning, intended  term of office. supervisory board approved an investment in barogo co., 
business policy, and key transactions of the company and  ltd. with registered seat in korea, a company specialized 
group; such reporting took place in writing and orally. in  meetings and essential resolutions   in the area of logistics for restaurant chains and food 
the same vein, it gave its opinion on key issues pertaining  of the delivery hero ag supervisory board delivery platforms.
to risk positions, risk management, financials, investment,  the supervisory board of delivery hero ag received a 
and staff planning, corporate governance, compliance, the  training session on the market abuse regulation and the   during a conference call meeting on may 8, 2018, the 
course of business, and profitability. the management  company structure of stock incorporations by an outside  supervisory board dealt with the quarterly statement for 
board explained and discussed measures and transactions  legal counsel on january 29, 2018. the first quarter and approved the opening of an exercise 
requiring approval of and with the supervisory board  window for the employee participation program.
prior to the former taking decisions. discussions took place  during a conference call meeting on february 5, 2018, the 
during meetings of the full supervisory board and its  supervisory board dealt in particular with the trading  during a conference call meeting on may 29, 2018, the 
committees, which were also held by conference call. the  update and the policy on non-audit services by the statu- supervisory board dealt with the exercised options within 
supervisory board and relevant committees also met  tory auditor. the framework of the employee long term incentive pro-
without the management boardʼs presence, where appli- gram. 
cable. the chairs of the supervisory board and audit  in three conference call meetings on march 12, 2018, the 
committee were also in regular contact with the chair of  supervisory board dealt with the exercised options within 
the management board and the chief financial officer  the framework of the employee long term incentive pro-
outside of meetings so as to discuss current developments  gram and approved the respective capital increases.
and key decisions, including those on risk position, risk 
17
report of the  supervisory board 
annual report 2018
the supervisory board meeting on june 6, 2018, subse- in advance of the meeting on august 1, 2018, the new mem- during its meeting on november 6, 2018, the supervisory 
quent to the annual general meeting and election of  bers of the supervisory board of delivery hero se received  board focused on the quarterly statement for the third 
mr. janis zech to the supervisory board, addressed poten- a session by an outside legal counsel on the market market  quarter of the financial year, the internal audit system, the 
tial, additional investments in marketing, restaurant cov- abuse regulation and the company structure of a societas  audit plan of the internal audit department for the financial 
erage, technology, and product. europaea (se). year 2019 as well as focus areas for risk and compliance 
management.
certain management board transactions and measures  during the meeting on august 1, 2018, the supervisory 
require prior approval from the supervisory board on  board of delivery hero se approved additional investments  in the conference call meeting on november 19, 2018, the 
account of statutory provisions or specifications in the  in the areas of marketing, restaurant coverage, technology,  supervisory board approved another exercise window 
management boardʼs rules of procedure. the supervisory  and product. in addition, the supervisory board approved  within the framework of the employee participation pro-
board gave its approval to various acquisitions by way of  a capital increase against contribution in kind to settle the  gram.
resolutions in writing, such as the purchase of shares in  acquisition of minority interests. another focus in addition 
deliveras s.a. with registered seat in greece and cloud  to the trading update for the half-year report were the  in a conference call meeting for information purposes on 
treats romania sa. with registered seat in romania. both  recommendations of the german corporate governance  december 12, 2018, the supervisory board dealt with the 
companies operate food delivery platforms. further, the  code. the supervisory board adopted rules of procedure  sale of the operating business in germany to takeaway.com 
supervisory board approved an increase in the thresholds  for the management board, supervisory board, and audit  n.v.
for transactions and measures of the management board,  committee and the supervisory boardʼs competence pro-
which are subject to the approval of the supervisory board  file. a target of female representation of 0% for the man- in the conference call meeting on december 13, 2018, the 
and adopted a resolution to adjust the remuneration of  agement board and 30% for the supervisory board was  supervisory board dealt in particular with the budget, the 
the management board. in addition, the supervisory board  set for a period of five years each. in addition, the super- independence of the supervisory board members and 
approved by way of a resolution in writing a capital  visory board constituted its committees and elected the  possible investments.
increase which was implemented as part of the employee  committee members. more information about the compo-
participation program. sition of the supervisory board and the committees can  during two meetings on december 19, 2018, the supervi-
be found in the “board matters” section and in the corpo- sory board approved the sale of german operations (of 
meetings and essential resolutions   rate governance report on page 20. delivery hero germany gmbh and foodora gmbh), includ-
of the delivery hero se supervisory board ing the delivery platforms lieferheld, pizza.de, and foodo-
during its constituent meeting by conference call on july 4,  during the meeting on september 11, 2018, the  supervisory  ra, to takeaway.com n.v. as well as increases to investments. 
2018, the supervisory board of delivery hero se elected  board concentrated on the half-year report for the financial  moreover, it focused in particular on the independence of 
dr. martin enderle as chair and mr. patrick kolek as depu- year 2018 in particular. furthermore, the supervisory board  several members of the supervisory board and adopted 
ty chair of the supervisory board. additionally, mr. niklas  also discussed the various options that employees may  the budget for the financial year 2019.
östberg (chief executive officer) and mr. emmanuel  exercise as part of the employee participation program.
thomassin (chief financial officer) were both appointed 
to the management board of delivery hero se until the 
conclusion of april 30, 2022. 
18
report of the  supervisory board 
annual report 2018
the supervisory board approved, among other things,  furthermore, the audit committee considered the require- the nomination committee, which is made up of share-
several capital increases that were implemented as part of  ments for nonfinancial reporting (csr – directive) and the  holder representatives exclusively, held two meetings 
the employee participation program and which were  separate nonfinancial statements for the group and  during the financial year 2018. during these meetings, the 
subject to the approval of the supervisory board. approved the rendering of non-audit services by the audi- committee dealt in particular with proposals for the elec-
tor kpmg. further, the audit committee adopted a guide- tion of a new shareholder representative to the super visory 
efficient work of the supervisory   line for the provision of non-audit services by the auditor.  board. mr. patrick kolek was prevented from attending one 
boardʼs committees similarly, the audit committee was involved in the prepa- meeting but participated by phone. all other members 
the supervisory board constituted four committees in  ration of the supervisory boardʼs proposal to the 2018  were present at all further meetings and phone calls during 
accordance with the advice of the german corporate  annual general meeting for the appointment of an auditor  their respective term of office.
governance code, namely, an audit committee, remuner- for the annual and consolidated financial statements. with 
ation committee, and nomination committee to discharge  mr. patrick kolek as chair of the audit committee, the audit  the strategy committee of delivery hero held three meet-
its duties in a duly manner. a strategy committee was also  committee, in line with sections 100 (5) and 107 (4) of the  ings and one conference call during the financial year 2018 
established in relation to the conversion from delivery   german stock corporation act (aktiengesetz, aktg), pos- and focused on the election of a chair of the strategy 
hero ag to delivery hero se. to increase the efficiency of  sesses an independent member who has the required  committee, potential company acquisitions, including in 
the supervisory boardʼs work, each committee was extend- level of expertise in accounting or auditing as well as  particular the sale of operations in germany, and the 
ed by one supervisory board member, so that each com- special knowledge and experience in the application of  budget for the financial year 2019. mr. patrick kolek was 
mittee consists of three members. the chairs of each  accounting principles and internal control procedures.  prevented from attending one meeting but participated 
committee regularly reported on the content and result of  mr. patrick kolek and dr. martin enderle were prevented  by phone. all other members were present at all further 
their meetings to the full supervisory board in the follow- from attending one meeting but participated by phone.  meetings and phone calls during their respective term of 
ing meeting of the supervisory board.  all other members were present at all further meetings  office.
and phone calls during their respective term of office.
the audit committee held five meetings during the finan- corporate governance
cial year 2018. during these meetings, the audit commit- during the financial year 2018, the remuneration   the supervisory board discussed various issues on the 
tee regularly focused on accounting structures and pro- committee held two meetings. focus areas for the com- topic of corporate governance and, together with the 
cesses, internal control, internal auditing, risk management,  mittee included the election of a chairman and in partic- management board, submitted the declaration of compli-
and compliance and discussed measures with the auditor  ular allocation of options to the management board  ance required under section 161 aktg on december 27, 
kpmg and the management board to strengthen them  members. for further information regarding management  2018. the full declaration of compliance and more exten-
further. kpmg participated in all audit committee meet- board remuneration, reference is made to the compensa- sive explanations of the companyʼs corporate governance 
ings. further, the audit committee dealt comprehensively  tion report beginning on page 37. mr. patrick kolek was  can be found in the corporate governance report begin-
with the annual and consolidated financial statements,  prevented from attending one meeting but participated  ning on page 22. readers are referred to the compensation 
including the group management report for the financial  by phone. all other members were present at all further  report beginning on page 37 for further information 
year 2017, and discussed the results of the audit of the  meetings and phone calls during their respective term of  regarding the remuneration structure for the management 
annual and consolidated financial statements with the  office. and supervisory boards. 
auditor. in addition, the audit committee discussed, 
reviewed and agreed to the half-year financial report and 
the quarterly statement for the third quarter.
19
report of the  supervisory board 
annual report 2018
there were two conflicts of interest revealed on the  in the presence of kpmg, during the audit committeeʼs  the positions of the members of the supervisory board of 
supervisory board in the financial year 2018: meeting and the supervisory boardʼs balance sheet meet- delivery hero ag and their committee memberships 
ing on april 23, 2019; in particular regarding their lawful- expired with the conversion of delivery hero ag into an 
—  in connection with the determination of the remuner- ness and compliance with requirements. the auditor kpmg  se on july 13, 2018. of the members belonging to the 
ation of the chairman of the supervisory board,  reported on the key findings of the audit, the specified  supervisory board at that time, mr. georg graf von walder-
dr. martin enderle revealed a conflict of interest.  scope for the audit and important circumstances arising  see (chair of the audit committee), mr. jeffrey liebermann 
dr. martin enderle abstained from voting. during the audit. the management board and the auditor  (deputy chair of the supervisory board and member of the 
kpmg were available for further questions and additional  remuneration and nomination committees), mr. jonathan 
—  in connection with a m&a transaction, which was not  information requested by the supervisory board. there  green, and mr. janis zech are no longer members of the 
carried out, mr. patrick kolek revealed a possible con- were no objections to raise following the supervisory  supervisory board of delivery hero se. 
flict of interest. mr. patrick kolek abstained from voting. boardʼs final audit result. in accordance with the recom-
mendation of the audit committee, the supervisory board  since its conversion on july 13, 2018, the supervisory board 
audit and finalization of the annual financial  approved the annual and consolidated financial statements  of delivery hero se consists of dr. martin enderle (chair of 
statement, approval of the consolidated  for 2018, the combined management report for  the supervisory board), mr. patrick kolek (deputy chair), 
financial statements delivery hero se and the group, and the combined sepa- and ms. hilary gosher as shareholder representatives. the 
the management board forwarded to the members of the  rate nonfinancial report; thus the annual financial state- employee representatives on the supervisory board were 
audit committee and supervisory board the annual and  ments are adopted. ms. vera stachowiak, mr. björn ljungberg, and mr. semih 
consolidated financial statements for 2018, the 2018 com- yalcin. mr. semih yalcin left the supervisory board of 
bined management report for delivery hero se and the  board matters delivery hero se effective april 1, 2019. as a substitute 
group (the “annual report documents”), and the com- mr. lukasz gadowski resigned from his position as a mem- member for mr. semih yalcin, mr. christian graf von hard-
bined separate nonfinancial report immediately after they  ber of the supervisory board of delivery hero ag on  enberg joined the supervisory board as employee repre-
were set up. the auditor kpmg audited the annual financial  december 15, 2017. in his place, the annual general meeting  sentative on april 1, 2019. the supervisory board membersʼ 
statement for delivery hero se and the consolidated finan- elected mr. janis zech as a new member of the super visory  term of office will end according to schedule at the con-
cial statements as well as the 2018 combined management  board of delivery hero ag on june 6, 2018. mr. janis zech  clusion of the regular annual general meeting that resolves 
report for delivery hero se and the group, and certified it  was appointed for the period up to the conclusion of the  on the discharge for the financial year 2019.
unconditionally. the annual report documents and the  annual general meeting discharging supervisory board 
audit findings of the auditor kpmg were examined in detail  actions for the financial year 2019.
20
report of the  supervisory board 
annual report 2018
due to the companyʼs conversion of its form, the super- the supervisory board would like to thank the manage-
visory board of delivery hero se also reconstituted its  ment board and all the companyʼs employees around the 
committees: world for their outstanding achievement in the financial 
year 2018, which was a year characterized by many import-
audit committee: ant milestones and strong growth. this would not have 
patrick kolek (chair), dr. martin enderle,   been possible without the commitment and positive 
björn ljungberg attitude of all our employees.
remuneration committee:
dr. martin enderle (chair), patrick kolek,   berlin, april 23, 2019
vera stachowiak
for the supervisory board
nomination committee:
dr. martin enderle (chair), patrick kolek, hilary gosher
strategy committee:
hilary gosher (chair), patrick kolek, dr. martin enderle
i would like to extend my special thanks to all members  dr. martin enderle
who have left the supervisory board after overseeing and  chair of the supervisory board of
supporting the companyʼs public listing and the first finan- delivery hero se
cial year following that. thanks to their high level of per-
sonal engagement, they have left a lasting mark on the 
company.
21
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
corporate 
declaration of compliance pursuant   opinion that a deductible for the members of the 
to section 161 aktg supervisory board does not have any influence on the 
governance   awareness of responsibility and loyalty of the members 
the declaration of compliance will be made permanently  of the supervisory board with regard to their tasks and 
available on the companyʼs internet page at https://ir. functions. moreover, it would reduce delivery hero seʼs 
deliveryhero.com/websites/delivery/english/4500/ possibilities to compete for competent and qualified 
corporate governance statement,   declaration-of-compliance.html. members of the supervisory board.
group governance statement and  
corporate governance report  declaration of compliance 2018 —   pursuant to section 4.2.3 para. 2 sentence 6 of the 
(sections 289f, 315d hgb, section 3.10 gcgc)  code, the amount of remuneration for a member of a 
declaration by the management board and the   management board shall be capped with maximum 
from the point of view of delivery hero se (also referred  supervisory board of delivery hero se regarding the  levels, both as regards variable components and in the 
to as “the company”), good corporate governance is an  recommendations of the “government commission  aggregate. the long-term incentive plan which has 
essential prerequisite for, and a reflection of, responsible  german corporate governance code” pursuant to   been adopted by the supervisory board as part of the 
leadership. as a multinational company, delivery hero se  section 161 aktg future compensation system for the management 
attaches paramount importance to governance geared  board consists of a stock option plan as well as of a 
toward its long-term success, as well as sustainable value  management board and supervisory board declare: restricted stock plan. both under the stock option plan 
creation and corporate control. the management board  and the restricted stock plan, the number of shares to 
and the supervisory board of delivery hero se are com- delivery hero se has complied since the publication of the  be allocated to the management board members is 
mitted to the principles of strong and responsible corpo- last declaration of compliance in december 2017 with the  capped. however, both plans do not provide for a cap 
rate governance and aim to meet the highest standards in  recommendations of the “government commission ger- on the achievable amount upon the exercise of the 
this regard. in particular, the management board and the  man corporate governance codex” in the version dated  stock options (regarding the stock option plan) and 
supervisory board are guided by the recommendations of  february 7, 2017 published by the federal gazette on  on the value of the stocks to be transferred to the 
the german corporate governance code (“gcgc”). in the  april 24, 2017 (the “code”), and will continue to comply in  beneficiary after the expiry of the blocking period 
following, the management board and the supervisory  the future subject to the following deviations: (regarding the restricted stock plan). in the opinion of 
board submit the corporate governance report together  the supervisory board, such caps would not be appro-
with the statement on corporate governance and the  —   pursuant to section 3.8 para. 3 of the code, the d&o  priate, as they would contradict the alignment of the 
group corporate governance statement in accordance with  insurance covering the members of a supervisory board  interests of the management board members with 
sections 289f, 315d hgb (german commercial code) on  shall provide for a deductible in the amount of 10% of  those of the shareholders. the purpose of both instru-
account of the closely related content. the loss up to at least the amount of one and a half  ments under the long-term incentive plan is to ensure 
times the fixed annual remuneration of the respective  an adequate and balanced participation of the man-
the corporate governance statement, the group gover- member of the supervisory board. delivery hero seʼs  agement board members in the economic risks and 
nance statement and the corporate governance report  current d&o insurance for the members of the super- chances of delivery hero se. in the opinion of the 
may be retrieved from the companyʼs internet page at  visory board does not include a deductible. the man- supervisory board, a cap on the value of stocks would 
https://ir.deliveryhero.com/websites/delivery/ agement board and the supervisory board are of the  not be in line with such participation. as no cap on the 
english/4100/corporate-governance-report.html.
22
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
achievable amount of the variable components of the  —   pursuant to section 7.1.2 sentence 3 (variant 1 and vari- corporate governance and relevant 
compensation exists, also no cap on the remuneration  ant 2) of the code, the consolidated financial state-  disclosures pertaining to corporate 
in the aggregate is in place. therefore, delivery hero se  ments and the group management report shall be   governance practices
declares a deviation from sec. 4.2.3 para. 2 sentence 6  made publicly accessible within 90 days from the end 
of the code. of the financial year, while mandatory interim financial  corporate governance – standards of good  
information shall be made publicly accessible within  and responsible corporate governance
—   pursuant to section 5.1.2 sentence 4 of the code, the  45 days from the end of the reporting period. in order  good corporate governance according to the “reputable 
supervisory board together with the management  to ensure a high quality of the financial reporting, the  businessman” model serves to increase on a lasting basis 
board shall ensure a long-term succession planning.  recommended publication periods may not be com- a companyʼs value as a going concern, and it fosters trust 
as the members of the management board have only  plied with. as a consequence, delivery hero se hereby  in our companyʼs management and supervision among 
recently been appointed, it is declared that the super- declares a deviation from the respective recommen- national and international investors, the financial markets, 
visory board has not yet developed any succession  dation. however, delivery hero se is constantly seeking  business partners, employees, and the public. accordingly, 
guidelines with regard to the members of the manage- to improve its reporting system to comply with this  the companyʼs management board, supervisory board, 
ment board. however, the supervisory board will,  recommendation of the code in the future and management ensure that our corporate governance 
together with the management board, develop a long- policies are actively embraced in practice and continually 
term succession planning in the near future, in order  berlin, in december 2018 refined in all areas of the company.
to ensure a sustainable corporate development. 
delivery hero se  corporate governance at delivery hero se is determined 
—   pursuant to section 5.4.6 para. 1 sentence 2 (variant 3)  in particular by the applicable laws, the recommendations 
of the code, the positon of the chair in the committees  on behalf of the supervisory board of the gcgc, and internal rules of procedures and guide-
of delivery hero se shall be taken into consideration  lines. 
when determining the remuneration. the supervisory 
board of delivery hero se has established an audit  the management board and supervisory board attach 
committee, a remuneration committee, a nomination  great value to cultivating an open corporate and manage-
committee and a strategy committee. the strategy  ment culture. positive interpersonal relations within the 
committee was established at a time when the remu- dr. martin enderle company are of paramount importance for the companyʼs 
neration for the chair of the audit committee, the  economic success and the satisfaction of its customers, 
compensation committee and the nomination com-   employees, partners, and shareholders. a detailed descrip-
mittee of delivery hero se had already finally been set  the management board tion of our corporate social responsibility is to be found 
out in the articles of association. for this reason, it is  in the combined separate nonfinancial report. 
declared that the remuneration for the chair of the 
strategy committee is currently not taken into account. 
delivery hero se seeks to adjust the compensation for 
the chair of the strategy committee in the near future.
niklas östberg    emmanuel thomassin
23
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
internal control system internal auditing system delivery hero se has developed a compliance management 
to ensure the reliability of its bookkeeping and accounting,  the central task of the internal audit department of  system that aims to prevent corruption, conflicts of inter-
delivery hero se has set up an accounting-related internal  delivery hero se is to assist the management board and  est, and other violations of law committed within the 
control system. the internal control systemʼs effectiveness  supervisory board in achieving the goals of the organiza- delivery hero group or by delivery hero se, its employees, 
is monitored by the internal audit department, the audit  tion. as such, the internal audit department is responsible  directors, or executives. the compliance management 
committee, and the supervisory board. the internal con- for independently and objectively evaluating the appro- system comprises a system of measures intended to ensure 
trol system is constantly adapted to the requirements of  priateness and effectiveness of management and monitor- that business is conducted at all times in full compliance 
the rapidly growing delivery hero group. ing processes and of the internal control and risk manage- with the law and with internal rules and principles. the 
ment systems. internal audit serves to promote responsible  compliance philosophy of delivery hero se focuses on 
the internal control system includes the necessary orga- corporate governance in accordance with the standards  preventing, detecting, and reacting appropriately to every 
nizational measures and controls within the company and  and code of ethics of the institute of internal auditors (iia)  type of misconduct.
ensures compliance with internal guidelines, protection  and the deutsches institut für interne revision (diir). the 
of company assets, and achievement of corporate goals.  internal audit function is based on an annual risk-based  within delivery hero se, the “governance, risk and com-
furthermore, the internal control system also allows the  audit plan. pliance” department is responsible for the early detection, 
company to counteract the risks arising from business  management, and monitoring of risks. by means of its 
activities, monitor these risks on a permanent basis, and  the internal audit function provides the audit committee  continual development of the compliance management 
manage them appropriately.  of the supervisory board with an audit report on a quar- system, the compliance department ensures that risks are 
terly basis, and the supervisory board with an audit report  identified and managed throughout the company accord-
risk management system on a half-yearly basis. these reports contain, inter alia, an  ing to a specific method. 
the key objectives of delivery hero seʼs risk management  account of the current status of the various audits under 
system (“rms”) are to manage and streamline the group- the annual audit plan, significant findings of completed  delivery hero se has developed a code of conduct to 
wide risk management process, to control all risk manage- audits, and any outstanding issues relating to the imple- provide employees with guidance in their decision-making. 
ment related activities and to ensure a comprehensive view  mentation of measures. it is a compilation of the principles, values, and rules of 
on all significant risks of the group. the rms is closely  conduct of delivery hero se. every employee of the 
aligned with the determination of the groupʼs strategy and  compliance, compliance management,  delivery hero group is responsible for reporting violations, 
its business objectives, including safeguarding of the  and the code of conduct of delivery hero se or potential violations, of law, the code of conduct, or 
groupʼs assets and the value chain. the “governance, risk  for delivery hero se, compliance signifies the fostering of  internal guidelines. delivery hero se offers employees and 
and compliance” department reports directly to the man- a sustainable corporate culture, of integrity and responsi- third partiesʼ various means of reporting compliance vio-
agement board, the audit committee, and the superviso- bility, as well as the responsible management of risks. lations under its whistle-blower system. the compliance 
ry board in regard to significant risks. further information  department investigates the reported cases and, if neces-
on our group-wide risk management system can be found  sary, initiates appropriate measures to eliminate the 
in section c of the combined management report. reported compliance violations.
24
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
the existing compliance management system is subject to  board is the companyʼs control and monitoring body,  requiring supervisory board approval, set out the major-
continuous review and is under continuous development  advising and overseeing the management board in its  ities required for the passing of management board reso-
by the management board in cooperation with the relevant  management of the companyʼs business. lutions, and outline the matters reserved for the entire 
departments. the management board bears overall  management board. management board meetings are held 
responsibility for the proper functioning of the compliance  duties, lines of authority, and composition   on a regular basis, usually every two weeks. the manage-
management system; the supervisory board and the inter- of the management board ment board, especially the chair, maintains regular contact 
nal audit department monitor the systemʼs effectiveness.  as the management board of delivery hero se, niklas  with the chair of the supervisory board. 
östberg (chair and ceo) and emmanuel thomassin (cfo) 
for further explanations in relation to compliance please  are personally responsible for managing the companyʼs  the management board discusses the current state of 
refer to to the combined separate nonfinancial report. divisions assigned to them. the management board is  strategy implementation with the supervisory board at 
duty-bound to act in the companyʼs interest and obliged  regular intervals. it informs the supervisory board regu-
duties, composition, and working methods   to increase on a lasting basis the companyʼs value as a  larly, promptly, and comprehensively in regard to all 
of the management board and supervisory  going concern. mr. östberg and mr. thomassin lead the  questions of strategy, planning, business development, 
board and of the supervisory boardʼs  company in a spirit of partnership and, as members of the  risk exposure, risk management, and compliance that are 
committees  management board, are jointly responsible, in coordina- of relevance to the company. 
  tion with the supervisory board, for the corporate strate-
dualistic management and control structure gy and its day-to-day implementation in accordance with  when taking decisions, management board members may 
the conversion of the company from a german stock  applicable laws, the articles of association, and the rules  not pursue any personal interests. during their term of 
corporation into a european public company (societas  of procedure. the management of all divisions is geared  office, they are subject to a comprehensive non-compete 
europaea, se), which was completed in 2018, expresses  to the aims set out by means of management board reso- clause and may not utilize business opportunities of the 
delivery hero seʼs self-image as an internationally oriented  lutions. irrespective of the division of business responsi- delivery hero group for their own gain. each member of 
company with european roots. as an se with its registered  bilities, the members of the management board bear joint  the management board must immediately disclose any 
office in germany, the company is subject to the european  responsibility for the governance of the entire company.  conflicts of interest to the supervisory board. all transac-
and german se regulations as well as to the german stock  they work together in a collegial manner and inform each  tions between delivery hero se or group companies, on 
corporation act (aktg). even after the conversion, which  other of significant measures and business transactions in  the one hand, and management board members and 
became effective with the entry in the commercial register  their respective divisions.  related parties on the other must adhere to standard 
on july 13, 2018, the management and control of the com- industry practices and require the permission of the super-
pany will still be carried out via a dual management sys- the rules of procedure laid down by the supervisory board  visory board. management board members may only 
tem. the management board and supervisory board work  govern the cooperation and responsibilities of the man- pursue secondary employment, especially supervisory 
closely together for the good of the company and are in  agement board members. in particular, they contain reg- board positions outside the delivery hero group, with the 
regular contact with one another. the management board  ulations on the working methods of the management  permission of the supervisory board. 
is the management body; it is responsible for the compa- board members and on cooperation with the supervisory 
nyʼs direction and business management. the supervisory  board. they also contain, inter alia, a catalog of matters 
25
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
the supervisory board is aware of the special importance  because the members of the management board were  the supervisory board has set rules of procedure for itself, 
of diversity in the companyʼs management. it firmly  appointed only in the last financial year (2018) – and each  which in particular regulate the working method and the 
believes that management and supervisory bodies with a  to a term that ends on april 30, 2022 – the supervisory  division of tasks of the supervisory board and its commit-
diverse composition can open up new perspectives that,  board has not yet developed any guidelines for the succes- tees. the chair of the supervisory board coordinates the 
in turn, facilitate decision-making processes that help  sion of management board members. the supervisory  work on the supervisory board. the supervisory board 
bring about a lasting improvement in performance. as  board will, however, develop in the future, jointly with the  holds at least two meetings per calendar year, with further 
regards the make-up of the management board, the super- management board, a long-term succession plan to ensure  meetings convened as and when necessary. meetings held, 
visory board attempts – even though professional and  continuous development of the company. and resolutions passed, in writing, by telephone, or by 
technical qualifications are always the deciding criterion –  means of electronic media are permissible. the super visory 
to take the international character and various core sectors  the articles of association of delivery hero se provide that  board passes its resolutions with a simple majority of 
of the business model of delivery hero se into consider- the supervisory board consists of six members. at the time  members voting on the resolution; if there is a tie, the 
ation as appropriately as possible while at the same time  of drafting this report, the supervisory board of  chair shall have the casting vote. the supervisory board 
honoring the principle of diversity, particularly in regard  delivery hero se consists of six members, three of whom  discusses the course of business, strategic planning, and 
to professional experience and the know-how of the can- are employee representatives. prior to the change of legal  significant investments on a regular basis. the super visory 
didates. in this regard, the supervisory board also endeav- form to an se, the supervisory board of delivery hero ag  board also regularly reviews the efficiency of its activities. 
ors to give appropriate consideration to women. even  also consisted of six members but did not include any  please refer to the supervisory board report for more 
though performance and qualifications are the paramount  employee representatives.  details of its activities in the 2018 financial year. 
factors when selecting management board members, such 
members shall not be more than 65 years old when they  the members of the supervisory board in the 2018 financial  in accordance with the recommendations of the gcgc, the 
are appointed. year were1: supervisory board has set up four committees: an audit 
committee, a remuneration committee, a nomination 
duties, lines of authority, and composition   —  dr. martin enderle (chair) committee, and a strategy committee. each committee 
of the supervisory board —  patrick kolek (member until july 13, 2018;   comprises three members. the chair of each committee 
the supervisory board is responsible for regular advice  deputy chair since july 13, 2018) reports, regularly and in detail, to the full supervisory 
and monitoring in respect of the management boardʼs  —  jeffrey liebermann (member until july 13, 2018) board on the work done in their committee. 
governance of the company. the supervisory board  —  georg graf von waldersee (member until july 13, 2018)
performs its functions in accordance with statutory  —  jonathan green (member until july 13, 2018) the supervisory board of delivery hero se has set targets 
legislation, the articles of association of the company,  —  janis zech (member from june 6, 2018,   for its own constitution, and it has determined for the body 
and its own rules of procedure. it is involved in decisions  to july 13, 2018) as a whole objectives of skills and expertise that seeks to 
of fundamental importance for the company and works  —  björn ljungberg (member since july 13, 2018) ensure the following: 
for the good of the company and in a spirit of trust with  —   semih yalcin (member from july 13, 2018,  
the other governing bodies of the company, especially the  to april 1, 2019)
management board. —  hilary gosher (member since july 13, 2018)
—  vera stachowiak (member since july 13, 2018)
—  christian graf von hardenberg  
(member since april 1, 2019)
1  the disclosures on the membership in the supervisory board and the super-
visory board committees also refer to the period prior to the legal form change 
from delivery hero ag to delivery hero se coming into force on july 13, 2018.
26
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
the members of the supervisory board should collectively  the supervisory board shall reflect a well-balanced mea- it is the conviction of the supervisory board that the com-
possess the knowledge, abilities, and technical experience  sure of diversity, particularly in respect of the internation- position described ensures independent and efficient 
necessary for proper discharge of their duties – supervising  ality of its members, their experience and disparate pro- advising and supervising of the management board. in 
and advising the management board. the individual mem- fessional histories and backgrounds. the supervisory  regard to the current state of implementation for the 
bers of the supervisory board should possess the knowl- board has set a target for the quota of women on the  composition of the supervisory board, the following 
edge, abilities, and professional qualifications and experi- supervisory board (for further details in this regard see  should be noted: the concrete objectives specified by the 
ence they need to properly and diligently fulfil the duties  page 29 below). supervisory board for its composition and the desired 
and responsibilities assigned to them. at least one member  realization of the profile of skills and expertise were 
of the supervisory board must have expertise in the fields  bearing in mind the delivery hero groupʼs international  achieved in full in financial year 2018. the independent 
of accounting or auditing; the members of the superviso- operations, at least three members of the supervisory  supervisory board members within the meaning of sec-
ry board must, as a whole, also be familiar with the sector  board are to have entrepreneurial experience in the com- tion 5.4.2 gcgc are dr. martin enderle, patrick kolek and 
in which delivery hero se operates. all members of the  panyʼs core markets, specifically in europe, south america,  hilary gosher, vera stachowiak, björn ljungberg, and 
supervisory board must have sufficient time at their dis- the near east (mena), and the asia-pacific region. the  christian graf von hardenberg. the supervisory board 
posal in which to thoroughly discharge the duties of their  appropriate entrepreneurial experience may be acquired  verifies at regular intervals that the goals for the compo-
office. no more than two former members of the manage- in particular through management duties in a globally-op- sition of the supervisory board and realization of the 
ment board are permitted to serve as members of the  erating company or by working as an advisor. objectives and expertise continue to be achieved.
supervisory board at the same time.
at least three members of the supervisory board are to be  proposals submitted by the supervisory board to the 
each member of the supervisory board is obliged to act in  independent as defined in section 5.4.2 sentence 2 gcgc.  annual general meeting for the election of supervisory 
the companyʼs interest. they may neither pursue personal  at present there is an age limit of 70 years and a term  board members take these goals into account while aiming 
interests in their decisions nor exploit for their own ben- limit of 15 years for supervisory board members, from  at the same time for continuous realization of the profile 
efit business opportunities to which the company is enti- which there may be an exemption in certain justified cas- of skills and expertise for the body as a whole.
tled. no candidates for election to membership on the  es, since the most important factor for appointment to 
supervisory board are to be proposed to the annual gen- membership on the supervisory board is a candidate's  composition and working methods of the  
eral meeting who are simultaneously serving in positions  professional and technical qualification. audit committee
on bodies of, or performing advisory duties for, significant  the audit committee is, inter alia, responsible for prepar-
competitors, or who (potentially) are permanently or fre- the members of the supervisory board shall comply with  ing resolutions of the supervisory board relating to the 
quently subject to a conflict of interest. a supervisory  the limit on the number of seats they are permitted to hold  audit and approval of the annual financial statements and 
board member must disclose possible conflicts of interest  according to section 5.4.5 sentence 2 gcgc. accordingly,  to the approval of the consolidated financial statements, 
to the supervisory board. conflicts of interest that have  a member of the supervisory board who belongs to the  as well as for the management boardʼs draft proposal for 
occured are handled appropriately; the supervisory board  board of management of a listed company shall not hold  the use of net retained profits and the supervisory boardʼs 
provides information about them in its report to the annu- more than a total of three supervisory board seats in listed  proposal to the annual general meeting for the selection 
al general meeting. significant, and not merely temporary,  companies outside the group, or in supervisory bodies of  of an auditor. in addition, the audit committee devotes 
conflicts of interest in the person of a supervisory board  companies outside the group that impose comparable  particular attention to monitoring the accounting, the 
member are to result in termination of their tenure. requirements. accounting process, the effectiveness of the internal control 
27
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
system, the risk management system, the internal audit  composition and working methods of the   —  dr. martin enderle (member until july 13, 2018,  
system, the final audit – particularly the selection and  remuneration committee and chair since august 1, 2018)
independence of the auditor and the additional services  the system for remunerating the management board, as  —  patrick kolek (member since august 1, 2018)
performed by the auditor – and compliance. the audit  well as the amount and appropriateness of remuneration  —  hilary gosher (member since august 1, 2018)
committee also reviews the audit reports and the auditorʼs  to be paid to the individual management board members,  —  jeffrey liebermann (member until july 13, 2018)
findings and makes recommendations to the supervisory  is reviewed by the remuneration committee. in this regard, 
board in respect thereof. the remuneration committee supports the activities of  composition and working methods of the  
the full supervisory board and prepares appropriate res- strategy committee
the members of the audit committee in the 2018 financial  olutions for its plenary sessions. the strategy committee was newly established by the 
year were: supervisory board following the change of legal form to 
the members of the remuneration committee in the 2018  delivery hero se. it is composed exclusively of shareholder 
—  patrick kolek, chair (member and chair since  financial year were: representatives and deals with strategic matters relating 
august 1, 2018) to delivery hero se.
—  dr. martin enderle (member until july 13, 2018 and  —  dr. martin enderle, chair (member until july 13, 2018, 
since august 1, 2018) and chair since august 1, 2018) the members of the strategy committee in the 2018 
—  björn ljungberg (member since august 1, 2018) —  patrick kolek (member since august 1, 2018) financial year were:
—  georg graf von waldersee (member and chair   —  vera stachowiak (member since august 1, 2018)
until july 13, 2018) —  jeffrey liebermann (member until july 13, 2018) —  hilary gosher, chair (member and chair since  
august 1, 2018)
with the conversion into delivery hero se, georg graf von  composition and working methods of the   —  dr. martin enderle (member since august 1, 2018)
waldersee retired as chair of the audit committee and  nomination committee —  patrick kolek (member since august 1, 2018)
patrick kolek was elected as chair of the audit committee  the nomination committee is made up exclusively of 
of delivery hero se. the chair of the audit committee,  representatives of the shareholders and gives the super- remuneration of the members of the management 
mr. patrick kolek possesses the expertise required accord- visory board the names of suitable candidates for the  board and supervisory board and of the members of 
ing to sections 100(5) and 107(4) aktg in the fields of  supervisory board to propose to the general meeting for  the committees
accounting or auditing along with special knowledge and  election to membership on the supervisory board. in doing  in regard to the remuneration paid to members of the 
experience in the application of accounting standards and  so, it considers both the desired objectives and expertise  management board and supervisory board and to mem-
internal control procedures. the former chair of the audit  for the body as a whole and the supervisory boardʼs con- bers of the committees, reference is made to the detailed 
committee, mr. georg graf von waldersee, also fulfilled  crete targets for its own composition. compensation report, which is part of the combined 
these requirements. in addition, mr. patrick kolek is inde- management report. the compensation report also con-
pendent and not a former member of the companyʼs  the members of the nomination committee in the 2018  tains concrete particulars of the companyʼs existing share 
management board. the former chair of the audit com- financial year were: option program and similar securities-oriented incentive 
mittee, mr. georg graf von waldersee, also fulfilled these  systems.
requirements. the members of the audit committee are 
as a whole familiar with the sector in which delivery hero se 
operates.
28
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
targets on the appointment of women in  the supervisory board has set, following the conversion  diversity plan
 management roles pursuant to section 76 (4)  to delivery hero se, a five-year target of 0% by july 30,  diversity is firmly embedded in the corporate culture of 
and section 111 (5) aktg 2023, for the quota of women on the management board.  delivery hero se and delivery hero group companies. all 
according to section 76 (4) sentence 1 aktg, the manage- the supervisory board is of the opinion that, for an  dimensions of diversity exist on an equal footing at 
ment board must set targets for the quota of women in  appointment to membership on the management board  delivery hero se, be they, for example, age, sex, educa-
the two management levels below the management board.  of delivery hero se, the best possible professional and  tional background or profession, origin or religion, or 
according to section 111 (5) sentence 1 aktg, the super- technical qualifications are the paramount consideration,  sexual orientation or identity. the employees of 
visory board must likewise set targets for the quota of  not sex. in this regard, the supervisory board pays due  delivery hero se come from more than 70 different coun-
women on the supervisory board and on the management  consideration to the fact that delivery hero se has been  tries and five continents. the management and supervi-
board. led by the same management board members since its  sory boards of delivery hero se also regard it as their duty 
conversion from a gmbh to an ag and then to an se, as  to further increase – beyond setting targets for the quota 
delivery hero se attaches great importance to diversity  well as during its ipo. this composition of the manage- of women on the management board and supervisory 
throughout the company and regards the participation  ment board has thus far proven successful. however, as a  board and in management positions – the various aspects 
of women at managerial levels as a key aspect of a diverse  matter of course, this does not exclude an increase in the  of diversity and to use them productively.
employment structure. that being so, the management  proportion of women at this level. in view of the fact that 
board intends to continue pursuing a suitable policy of  the management board is currently constituted exclusive- to date, the company has not pursued a diversity concept 
promoting women to continually increase the proportion  ly of men, the target of 0% has been achieved. of its own in respect of the composition of the manage-
of women in management positions. following the con- ment board and supervisory board. however, the inner 
version to delivery hero se, the management board of  following the conversion to delivery hero se, the super- manifestation and further development of an open and 
delivery hero se has kept these targets of delivery hero ag  visory board has increased the target for the quota of  integrative corporate culture occupies a position of major 
in place. for the first level below the management board,  women on the supervisory board from 0% to 30% for the  importance in the daily work of the management board 
the management board set target of 0% by june 26, 2022.  five-year period up to july 30, 2023. currently, two women  and supervisory board. in this regard, the management 
this notwithstanding, the quota of women currently  sit on the supervisory board, which equates to a quota of  board and supervisory board intend to work out a diver-
stands at 17%, meaning that the target has been exceeded.  33.3%. the supervisory board has therefore met its target.  sity plan that addresses key aspects of diversity, defines 
for the second level below the management board, the  specific targets for them, and contains provisions for the 
management board set target of 18% by june 26, 2022,  the supervisory board is aware, however, of the impor- manner in which they are to be implemented and achieved.
which has also been exceeded reaching a quota of 23%.  tance of diversity, and specifically of the special importance 
of the participation of women in management and super-
visory positions. accordingly, the supervisory board aims 
to increase the quota of women in the composition of the 
management board and the supervisory board in the long 
term.
29
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
corporate governance practice   d&o insurance conferences, all financial reports, and the financial calendar 
and transparency the company has taken out consequential loss liability  are published in german and english on the website. 
insurance (known as “d&o insurance”) for the members  alongside changes to the shareholder structure subject to 
shareholders and the general meeting of the management board and supervisory board that  disclosure obligations, delivery hero se also publishes 
the shareholders exercise their co-management and con- covers personal liability risk in the event that management  transactions in shares of the company carried out by 
trol rights in the annual general meeting, where they also  board or supervisory board members are held liable for  individuals in management roles at delivery hero se, and 
exercise their voting rights. the annual general meeting  financial losses in performing their services. for the man- related parties to such individuals, in accordance with 
is chaired, in accordance with the articles of association,  agement board, a deductible of 10% of the loss, up to  article 19 of the market abuse regulation. as part of com-
by the chair of the supervisory board or by another super- one-and-a-half times the fixed annual remuneration, is  prehensive investor relations work, delivery hero se 
visory board member designated by them. each share  stipulated in the d&o policy. no similar deductible has  maintains a close and ongoing dialogue with current and 
confers one vote. on the basis of its statutory duties, the  been stipulated for the supervisory board since the man- potential shareholders. 
annual general meeting decides, inter alia, on the use of  agement board and supervisory board are of the opinion 
net retained profits, ratification of the acts of the manage- that a deductible has no effect on supervisory board  accounting and auditing
ment board and supervisory board, the appointment of  membersʼ sense of responsibility or loyalty in regard to  the unaudited semi-annual financial report as of june 30, 
the auditor, the election of supervisory board members,  their duties and positions. moreover, the companyʼs abil- 2018, and the consolidated financial statements as of 
and capital or structural measures. ity to recruit competent and qualified supervisory board  december 31, 2018, were drawn up according to the inter-
members would be limited by the stipulation of a deduct- national financial reporting standards (ifrs) as applicable 
delivery hero se supports the shareholders as much as  ible. in the eu. the consolidated financial statements contain 
possible in the exercise of their rights in the annual gen- in addition the disclosures that are required according to 
eral meeting. all documents and information relating to  transparent corporate governance and communication section 315a (1) hgb. the annual financial statements of 
the annual general meeting are regularly made available –  transparency is one of the essential components of good  delivery hero se for financial year 2018 were drawn up 
in german and english – to any interested party on the  corporate governance. the shares of delivery hero se are  according to the provisions of the german commercial 
companyʼs website shortly after the annual general meet- listed on the prime standard segment of the frankfurt  code (hgb) and the provisions of the german stock cor-
ing is convened. stock exchange. the company is therefore subject to the  poration act (aktg).
most stringent transparency requirements according to 
shareholders have the option of exercising their voting  statute and stock exchange law. delivery hero se reports  kpmg ag wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, berlin (“kpmg”) 
rights in the annual general meeting themselves or having  on the position and development of the company and  was chosen for financial year 2018 as auditor of the annu-
it exercised by an authorized agent of their choice. the  delivery hero group in both german and english in order  al financial statements and consolidated financial state-
management board also takes care of appointing a repre- to inform institutional investors, private shareholders,  ments. the undersigning auditors for the 2018 annual and 
sentative for the exercise of a shareholderʼs voting rights  financial analysts, business partners, employees and the  consolidated financial statements of delivery hero se are 
according to the shareholderʼs instructions (voting rights  interested general public simultaneously and on an equal  björn knorr and alexander heidgen.
representatives appointed by the company); this represen- footing. all key information, such as ad hoc and voting 
tative will be available during the general meeting. rights notifications, presentations from roadshows and 
30
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
the semi-annual financial report and the quarterly bulle- berlin, this april 23, 2019
tins for the third quarter were initially discussed, before 
publication, by the audit committee with the companyʼs  on behalf of the management board:
cfo, mr. emmanuel thomassin. both the semi-annual 
financial report and the quarterly bulletins for the first and 
third quarters were discussed by the management board 
jointly with the supervisory board prior to their publica-
tion.
niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin
kpmg promptly reports any possible grounds for exclusion  chair of the   member of the  
or reasons for bias that arise during the audit if they are  management board, ceo  management board, cfo
not promptly eliminated. the auditor is also to report 
promptly on all findings and happenings of material impor-
tance for the duties of the supervisory board that come to  on behalf of the supervisory board:
the auditorʼs knowledge as the audit is being performed. 
it is likewise agreed that the auditor will inform the super-
visory board, or so note in the audit report, if, when 
auditing the financial statements, he ascertains facts that 
reveal inaccuracy in the statement of compliance issued 
by the management board and supervisory board pursuant  dr. martin enderle
to section 161 aktg. prior to the audit, delivery hero se  chair of the supervisory board
will obtain a comprehensive declaration of independence 
on the part of the auditor in order to ensure that there are 
no business, financial, personal, or other relations that 
could cast doubt on the independence of the auditor.
31
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
takeover-related disclosures and  restrictions that concern voting rights   —  overall 367,200 shares are held in escrow according to 
 explanatory notes by the management  or the transfer of shares an investment agreement. the agreement contains 
board vesting periods respectively for one third of the shares, 
restrictions on transfer which end at the conclusion of june 30, 2018, june 30, 
this chapter contains the disclosures pursuant to sections  according to the understanding of the management board  2019 and june 30, 2020.
289a (1), 315a (1) of the commercial code together with the  of the company, the restrictions on transfer as stated by 
explanatory report of the management board pursuant to  the law on obligations are as follows:  persons who perform management duties at delivery  
section 176 (1) sentence 1 german stock corporation act  hero se within the meaning of the european market abuse 
[aktiengesetz – aktg] in conjunction with section 9 (1) lit. c  —   in the context of the companyʼs ipo, a vesting period  regulation (mar) must observe the closed periods (trading 
(ii) se regulation. of twelve months from the first trading day has been  prohibitions) established by article 19(11) mar.
agreed with the members of the management board 
composition of subscribed capital and their associated companies regarding a total of  restriction on voting rights 
at the end of the reporting period, the companyʼs sub- approximately one million shares in the company in a  according to the understanding of the management board 
scribed capital amounted to € 185,930,494.00, which  lock-up agreement dated june 5, 2017. the vesting  of the company, the restrictions on voting rights as stated 
was subdivided into 185,930,494 no-par value bearer  period ended at the conclusion of june 30, 2018. by the law on obligations are as follows: 
shares. in february 2019, a further capital increase was  —  lock-up agreements and corresponding supplementary 
implemented, so that at the time of the publication of  agreements mean that a total of 2,326,797 shares are  —  pursuant to sections 71b and 71d aktg, there are no 
this report, the companyʼs subscribed capital amounts  subject to a (extended) vesting period of a total of 270  voting rights with respect to approx. 78,230 shares in 
to € 187,504,222.00, which is subdivided into 187,504,222  days from the first day of company shares being traded  the company.
no-par value bearer shares. on the stock exchange. the vesting period ended at  —  in accordance with section 136 aktg, members of the 
the conclusion of march 27, 2018. management board are restricted in exercising their 
there are no different share classes. the same rights and  —  overall 3,505,500 shares were held in escrow according  voting rights with respect to the 947,512 shares in the 
obligations are associated with all shares. each share  to a shareholders agreement and several supplementary  company held by them, or which are held in trust on 
grants one vote and determines the shareholderʼs share in  agreements. depending on the respective trustor, the  their behalf.
the profits. shares held by the company itself, which do  agreements contained vesting periods of twelve and  —  there is an agreement between the shareholders who 
not grant the company any rights in accordance with  twenty-four months. the twelve months vesting period  had invested in the company before the ipo to the 
section 71b aktg, are excluded from this.  ended at the conclusion of december 31, 2017 and the  effect that they may exercise their voting rights at the 
twenty-four months vesting period ended at the  first general meeting following the ipo at which the 
conclusion of december 31, 2018. supervisory board will be newly elected in such a way 
32
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
as to determine the composition and term of office of  notifications” item on the companyʼs website at https:// the management board, see sections 9 (1), 39 (2) se regu-
the supervisory board, provided that this general  ir.deliveryhero.com/websites/delivery/english/6400/  lation and section 84 (3), ss. 1 and 2 aktg.
meeting takes place before the end of 2019. specifically,  voting-rights-notifications.html.
the period of office agreed by the shareholders will  amendments to the articles of association are made by 
end when the supervisory board is discharged for the  shares with special rights conferring   resolution of the general meeting in accordance with 
second complete financial year following the ipo. powers of control section 20 (2) of the articles of association, requiring, 
—  pursuant to a shareholders agreement, 3,505,500  there are no shares with special rights conferring powers  unless this conflicts with mandatory legal provisions, a 
shares held in escrow are subject to the contractual  of control. majority of two-thirds of the valid votes cast or, if at least 
obligation to uniformly use the voting rights of the  one-half of the share capital is represented, the simple 
shares, held for the respective shareholder in escrow. statutory requirements and provisions in the  majority of the valid votes cast. as far as the law requires 
articles of association regarding nomination  a capital majority in addition to a majority of votes for 
there may be voting right restrictions that go beyond this  and dismissal of members of the management  resolutions of the general meeting, a simple majority of 
arising from the stock corporation act, such as section 136  board, and amendments to the articles of  the share capital represented at the time the resolution is 
aktg or capital market law provisions, in particular sec- association passed shall be sufficient to the extent that this is legally 
tions 33 et seq. of the german securities trading act  in accordance with section 7 (1) of the articles of associa- permissible. in accordance with section 12 (5) of the articles 
(wertpapierhandelsgesetz – wphg). tion, the management board consists of one or more  of association, the supervisory board is authorized to 
individuals. the number of individuals is determined by  make editorial changes to the articles of association by 
shareholdings exceeding 10% of voting rights the supervisory board. the management board of  resolution.
at the end of the 2018 financial year, the following direct  delivery hero se currently consists of two individuals. in 
and indirect holdings in delivery hero se existed, which  accordance with sections 9 (1), 39 (2), 46 se regulation,  powers of the management board in 
exceeded the threshold of 10% of the voting rights2 and  sections 84 and 85 aktg, and section 7 (3) (4) of the articles   particular with respect to the possibility  
which were notified to the company by means of voting  of association, the supervisory board appoints the mem- of issuing or buying back shares
rights notifications in accordance with sections 33,  bers of the management board for a maximum term of six  the management board of the company was originally 
34 wphg (sections 32, 22 wphg old version): years. individuals may be reappointed. if multiple individ- authorized to increase the registered capital of the compa-
uals are appointed to the management board, the super- ny until june 8, 2022 with the consent of the supervisory 
—  naspers limited with its registered seat in cape town,  visory board may designate a chair as well as a deputy  board once or repeatedly, by up to a total of € 882,300.00 
south africa through mih food holdings b.v.  chair, pursuant to section 7 (2) of the articles of associa- by the issuance of up to 882,300 new no-par value regis-
(attributed) and mih dh holdings b.v. tion. if an essential member of the management board is  tered shares against contributions in cash (authorized 
  absent, the court must, in urgent cases and at the request  capital/ii). the authorized capital/ii was cancelled by res-
further information on the amount of the holdings listed  of an involved party, appoint another member; see section  olution of the annual general meeting on june 6, 2018 
above can be found in the disclosures on voting right  85 (1), s. 1 aktg. if there is cause to do so, the supervisory  (agenda item 6).
notifications in the notes to the delivery hero se 2018  board may revoke the appointment of the member of the 
annual financial statement as well as the “voting rights   management board as well as the designation as chair of 
2  the information shown here takes into account the most recent notifications of 
voting rights received by the company. these notifications of voting rights may 
take into account capital increases that have not already been carried out.
33
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
the management board of the company is authorized to  of the supervisory board of the company and further  the management board of the company was originally 
increase the registered capital of the company until june 8,  beneficiaries who are or were acting for the company or  authorized to increase the registered capital of the com pany 
2022, with the consent of the supervisory board once or  its affiliated companies, in order to replace the hitherto  (formerly delivery hero ag) until june 8, 2022, with the 
repeatedly, by up to a total of € 8,158,550.00 by the issuance  existing virtual share program of the company with effect  consent of the supervisory board once or repeatedly, by up 
of up to 8,158,550 new no par value registered shares against  as of april 21, 2017; shares out of the authorized capital/iv  to a total of € 12,890,100.00 by the issuance of up to 
contributions in cash (authorized capital/iii). the subscrip- may only be issued for this purpose. the management board  12,890,100 new no par value registered shares against 
tion rights of the shareholders are excluded. the authorized  is authorized to determine with the consent of the super- contributions in cash (authorized capital/vi). the autho-
capital/iii is to be used for any purposes (including, without  visory board the further scope of the shareholdersʼ rights  rized capital/vi was cancelled by resolution of the annual 
limitation, in connection with acquisition transactions by  pertaining to the shares to be newly issued and the further  general meeting on june 6, 2018 (agenda item 6).
the company, the participation of further investors in the  conditions of the issuance of the new shares.
company, share swap transactions, the issuance of addi- the management board was originally authorized to 
tional shares under the so-called loan and escrow agree- the management board of the company is authorized to  increase the share capital of the company until june 8, 2022, 
ment entered on august 7, 2014, as amended from time to  increase the registered capital of the company until june 8,  with the consent of the supervisory board once or repeat-
time, or any new loan agreements, etc.). to extent new  2022, with the consent of the supervisory board once or  edly, by up to a total of € 25,000,000.00 by the issuance of 
shares are issued under the so-called loan and escrow  repeatedly, by up to a total of € 18,675,300.00 by the issu- up to 25,000,000 new no par value registered shares 
agreement entered into on august 7, 2014, as amended  ance of up to 18,675,300 new no par value registered shares  against contributions in cash and/or non-cash contributions 
from time to time, or any new loan agreements, the new  against contributions in cash (authorized capital/v). the  (authorized capital/vii). by resolution of the annual gen-
shares shall be issued at the lowest issue price. the man- subscription rights of the shareholders are excluded. the  eral meeting (formerly delivery hero ag), the authorized 
agement board of the company is authorized to determine  authorized capital/v serves the fulfilment of contractual  capital/vii was completely canceled on june 6, 2018 and 
with the consent of the supervisory board the further scope  claims, already agreed upon prior to january 1, 2017, of those  increased by € 55,546,866.00 to € 55,546,866.00. the sub-
of the shareholdersʼ rights pertaining to the shares to be  shareholders who have subscribed for new shares in  scription rights of the shareholders are only excluded in 
newly issued and the further conditions of the issuance of  delivery hero gmbh (prior to the conversion into delivery   certain cases or can only be excluded by the management 
the new shares.  hero ag) based on the resolution dated december 4 to 9,  board with the consent of the supervisory board. the man-
2016 for an increase of the nominal share capital; shares  agement board is authorized to determine any further 
the management board of the company is authorized to  out of the authorized capital/v may only be issued for this  details of the capital increase and its implementation, 
increase the registered capital of the company until june 8,  purpose. for certain claims, the utilization of the authorized  subject to the consent of the supervisory board; this also 
2022, with the consent of the supervisory board once or  capital/v is limited to 3,505,500 new shares. the shares  includes the determination of the profit participation of the 
repeatedly, by up to a total of € 8,961,523.00 by the issuance  shall be issued at the lowest issue price. the management  new shares, which may, in deviation of section 60 (2) aktg, 
of up to 8,961,523 new no par value registered shares against  board is authorized to determine with the consent of the  also participate in the profit of completed fiscal years. 
contributions in cash (authorized capital/iv). the subscrip- supervisory board the further scope of the shareholdersʼ  shares which are issued to members of the management 
tion rights of the shareholders are excluded. the authorized  rights pertaining to the shares to be newly issued and the  board and employees of the company, as well as to mem-
capital/iv serves the fulfilment of acquisition rights (option  further conditions of the issuance of the new shares. bers of the corporate bodies and employees of affiliated 
rights) which have been granted or promised by the com- companies of the company within the meaning of sec-
pany to current or former employees and managing direc- tions 15 et seqq. aktg, shall have in each case a full profit 
tors of the company and its affiliated companies, members  participation for the fiscal year in which they are issued.
34
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
on december 5, 2017, the management board (formerly  b) 90,100 shares. to a maximum of € 187,451,822.00 by the issuance of up to 
delivery hero ag) resolved to use the authorized capital/ 1,521,328 new registered shares against cash contribution. 
vii to increase the companyʼs share capital by up to  the capital increase and its implementation were entered  the capital increase and the implementation were entered 
€ 10,500,000.00 from € 171,998,900.00 to € 182.498.900,00  in the commercial register on march 19, 2018. following  in the commercial register on february 21, 2019. the autho-
by the issuance of up to 10,500,000 new no-par value  partial use, authorized capital/iv amounting to  rized capital/iv still amounts to € 7,440,195.00 after the 
registered shares. the final number of new shares to be  € 9,461,789.00 remained. capital increase.
issued was set to 10,500,000 in accordance with the reso-
lution of the management board on december 6, 2017  on may 29, 2018, the management board (formerly delivery   on february 20, 2019, the management board resolved to 
increase and the implementation of the capital increase  hero ag) resolved to use authorized capital/iv to increase  use the authorized capital/iv to increase the companyʼs 
were entered in the commercial register on december 6,  the companyʼs share capital by up to € 500,266.00 from  share capital by up to € 52,400.00 from € 187,451,822.00 to 
2017. following partial use, authorized capital/vii amount- € 183,955,311.00 to a maximum of 184,455,577.00 by the  a maximum of € 187,504,222.00 by the issuance of up to 
ing to € 14,500,000.00 remained. issuance of up to 500,266 new no-par value registered  52,400 new registered shares against cash contribution. 
shares against contributions of cash. the final number of  the capital increase and the implementation were entered 
on february 21, 2018, the management board (formerly  new shares to be issued was set at 500,266 shares in accor- in the commercial register on february 25, 2019. the autho-
delivery hero ag) resolved to use authorized capital/iv to  dance with the resolution of the management board of  rized capital/iv still amounts to € 7,387,795.00 after partial 
increase the companyʼs share capital by up to € 2,603,642.00  may 30, 2018. the capital increase and its implementation  utilization at the time of the publication of this report.
from € 182,498,900.00 to a maximum of € 185,102,542.00  were entered in the commercial register on may 31, 2018. 
by the issuance of up to 2,603,642 new no-par value regis- the authorized capital/iv still amounts to € 8,961,523.00  the share capital of the company is conditionally increased 
tered shares against contributions of cash.  after partial utilization at the end of the reporting period.  by up to € 61,219,560.00 by issuing up to 61,219,560 new 
no-par value registered shares of the company with a frac-
the final number of new shares to be issued was set in  on august 1, 2018, the management board resolved to use  tional amount of the registered share capital of € 1.00 per 
accordance with the resolution of the management board  the authorized capital/vii to increase the companyʼs share  share (conditional capital 2017/i). the conditional capital 
(formerly delivery hero ag) on march 12, 2018: capital by up to € 1,474,917.00 from € 184,455,577.00 to a  increase serves the granting of shares on the exercise of 
maximum of € 185,930,494.00 by the issuance of up to  conversion or option rights or the fulfilment of conversion 
a) 1,366,311 shares. 1,474,917 new registered shares against in-kind contribu- or option obligations to the holders or creditors of convert-
tions. the capital increase and the implementation were  ible bonds, warrant bonds, profit participation rights and/
the capital increase and its implementation were entered  entered in the commercial register on august 8, 2018. the  or income bonds (or a combination of these instruments), 
in the commercial register on march 14, 2018. following  authorized capital/vii still amounts to € 54,071,949.00 after  issued on the basis of the authorizing resolution of the 
partial use, authorized capital/iv amounting to  partial utilization at the end of the reporting period. general meeting of june 13, 2017. the new shares participate 
€ 9,551,889.00 remained. in profits from the beginning of the fiscal year in which they 
on february 20, 2019, the management board resolved to  are created and for all subsequent fiscal years. in deviation 
use the authorized capital/iv to increase the companyʼs  hereof, the management board can, insofar as legally per-
share capital by up to € 1,521,328.00 from € 185,930,494.00  missible, and with the approval of the supervisory board, 
35
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
determine that the new shares participate in profits from  tion right is exercised. the management board of the  respective share capital in the company at any time. this 
the beginning of the fiscal year for which at the time of the  company or, to the extent members of the management  authorization may be exercised by the company once or 
exercise of the conversion or option rights, the fulfilment  board are affected, the supervisory board of the company  multiple times, fully or in partial amounts, for a single or 
of the conversion or option obligations or the granting (of  is authorized to determine the further details of the condi- multiple purposes, but also by group companies or third 
shares) instead of the amount due, still no resolution by the  tional capital increase and its consummation. parties for the account of the company or group compa-
general meeting as to the appropriation of the balance  nies. the authorization must not be exercised for the 
sheet profit has been passed. the management board is  the complete version of these authorizations is set out in  purpose of trading the companyʼs own shares.
authorized to determine the further details of the imple- the companyʼs articles of association in the version of 
mentation of the conditional capital increase. august 8, 2018. the current version of the articles of asso- material company agreements that are  
ciation of the company is available in the sub-section  subject to the condition of a change of  
in accordance with authorization by the general meeting  “articles of association” on the companyʼs website at  control resulting from a takeover bid  
of june 13, 2017 (agenda item 4, lit. a)), the share capital of  https://ir.deliveryhero.com/websites/delivery/ german/   and subsequent effects
the company is conditionally increased by € 3,485,000.00  4400/satzung.html. the following material agreements of the company exist 
by issuing up to 3,485,000 new no-par value registered  which are subject to a change of control following a take-
shares of the company with a fractional amount of the  subject to approval by the supervisory board and whilst  over bid:
registered share capital of € 1.00 per share (conditional  upholding the principle of equality (section 53a, aktg), the 
capital 2017/ii). the conditional capital 2017/ii serves to  management board is (or respectively – regarding the  the company is party to two substantial software license 
secure subscription rights from stock options issued by the  authorization to take their own shares as security – was),  contracts, which are subject to a change of control clause. 
company under the authorization of the general meeting  authorized, through june 12, 2022, to acquire shares to be  one of them contains an automatic termination of a service 
(formerly delivery hero ag) of june 13, 2017, (agenda item 4,  held by the company itself up to a total of 10% of the  component and the other one a termination right. further-
lit. a)) as part of the stock option program 2017/ii from the  company share capital existing at the time of the resolu- more, the company is party to a lease contract, which 
date of the registration of conditional capital 2017/ii until  tion or – if this value is smaller – of the share capital  contains a common consent requirement for the transfer 
june 30, 2020 to members of the management board of the  existing at the time that the authorization is exercised,  of the lease agreement.
company, members of managing corporate bodies of affil- or – subject to the time limit to june 30, 2017 – to take the 
iated companies as well as selected executives and employ- same as security. together with other shares held by the 
ees of the company or affiliated companies in germany and  company itself and which the company has already 
abroad. the new shared will be entitled to dividends from  acquired or taken as security and still owns, or which are 
the beginning of the fiscal year for which not yet a resolu- attributed to it in accordance with section 71a et seq. aktg, 
tion of the general meeting has been made on the appro- the shares acquired under the above-mentioned authori-
priation of the balance sheet profit at the time the subscrip- zation and taken as security must not exceed 10% of the 
36
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
compensation agreements concluded by the  compensation report pursuant to  account. in its review of the appropriateness of the com-
company with members of the management  §§ 289a(2), 315a(2) hgb pensation level and system, the supervisory board of 
board or employees for the event of a   (this compensation report pursuant to §§ 289a(2), 315a(2)  delivery hero se was assisted by an independent external 
takeover bid hgb constitutes part of the combined management report  compensation expert.
in the event of a change of control, members of the man- 2018)
agement board are entitled to resign from their position  the remuneration system for the members of the manage-
within three months of the date of the change of control,  the following compensation report complies with the  ment board was newly resolved by the supervisory board 
subject to a notice period of three months to the end of a  accounting standards for capital market-oriented compa- in june 2017 and changed over on january 1, 2018. the new 
calendar month. resignation from the management board  nies (german commercial code, german accounting  compensation system applies equally to all members of 
becoming effective results in termination of the respective  standards, and international financial reporting standards)  the management board. it is aligned with the companyʼs 
board memberʼs contract of employment.  along with the recommendations of the german corporate  corporate strategy and is conducive to sustainable corpo-
governance code (deutscher corporate governance  rate development. because of the marked degree to which 
in the case of resignation from office following a change  kodex) in the version of february 7, 2017 (hereinafter the  the variable compensation is linked to shares under the 
of control, management board member mr. emmanuel  “dcgk”). the basic features of the compensation system  new compensation system, a broad alignment with the 
thomassin is entitled to compensation in the amount of  for executive and supervisory board members are  interests of the investors is aimed for. the internal perfor-
150% of the severance cap, which may not exceed the  described, and information is provided on the remunera- mance target used in addition accords with the companyʼs 
remaining term of the service agreement (coc-cap). in the  tion granted and paid out to the members of the manage- development and growth phase. owing to the risk of total 
case of resignation from office following a change of  ment board and the supervisory board of delivery hero se  loss under the new stock option plan in the event of a 
control, the incentive instruments held by management  during the 2018 financial year. in the financial year 2018,  stagnating or falling share price, an upper limit (cap) has 
board members mr. niklas östberg and mr. emmanuel  the new compensation system was used for the first time  been dispensed with to ensure a balanced opportunity/
thomassin (such as convertible bonds and share options)  after revision and adjustments in connection with the  risk profile for the management board and to bring its 
become vested or are immediately allocated. in the case  initial public offering in 2017. interests as much as possible into harmony with the inter-
of mr. thomassin, the coc-cap is also applicable in this  ests of the shareholders.
respect. the employment contracts for each of the man- basic features and objectives of the 
agement board members provide for payments in lieu of   compensation system for members of   the supervisory board will regularly review and adjust the 
vacation in the event of resignation from office following  the management board compensation system whenever necessary to allow for the 
a change of control.  the supervisory board adopts the system for compensat- companyʼs further development. 
ing management board members as proposed by the 
the employment contracts for members of the manage- compensation committee. the compensation system and  the structure of the compensation system
ment board do not provide for any other compensation in  the appropriateness of the total compensation, along with  the current compensation system for management board 
the event of the termination of the employment due to a  the individual compensation components, are regularly  members consists of two main components: the non-per-
change of control. there are no similar compensation  reviewed and adjusted as necessary. in particular, the  formance-based base salary and a long-term perfor-
agreements with other company employees. provisions of § 87 aktg (aktiengesetz, german stock cor- mance-based compensation component. this means that 
poration act) and the recommendations and suggestions  variable compensation is provided for on a multi-year basis 
made in section 4.2.2 and 4.2.3 of the dcgk are taken into  as recommended by the dcgk.
37
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
non-performance-based compensation in addition, mr. östberg has been granted a personal  option rights under the sop 2017, the general meeting- 
base salary budget amounting to € 25,000 annually, which he may  authorised share capital iv was used.3
the base salary of the management board members is paid  use, subject to presentation of receipts, to cover the costs 
in twelve monthly instalments. he incurs by regularly commuting between his place of  under the sop 2017 the beneficiaries receive share option 
residence and place of work. rights that have an individual exercise price that depends 
fringe benefits on the date on which those rights are granted. the vesting 
in addition to reimbursement of their travel costs and  performance-based compensation  period of the granted options is four years. in part, the 
other business-related expenses, the management board  share-based compensation granted stock options can be exercised after the first two 
members receive monthly contributions to their health  until the time of the ipo, the performance-based compen- years of the vesting period (“cliff”). all other options vest 
and nursing care insurance as provided by law. sation consisted of a virtual share program (vsp). the  during the further two years of the vesting period. the 
management board members received virtual shares from  latest point in time for exercising any options is two years 
the company also grants the management board members  the companyʼs vsp. in connection with the ipo, all of the  after the end of the four-year vesting period (“exercise 
accident insurance with cover in the amount of € 350,000  companyʼs vsp were consolidated, and the outstanding  period”). such exercise is possible only if the share price 
in the case of death and € 800,000 in the case of disabil- virtual shares were converted into option rights. for that  is higher than the exercise price at the time of exercise. in 
ity. additionally, the company assumes the costs of a  the stock option program 2017 (sop 2017) was launched.  lieu of issuing new shares in the event that option rights 
preventive medical examination every two years. for the conversion into option rights and the grant of new  are exercised, the company reserves the right of making 
a cash payment to the beneficiaries, the company regular-
ly aims at an equity settlement of the vested options. the 
2018 long-term incentive program (ltip) beneficiary then receives for each option right a cash 
settlement amounting to the difference between the share 
price at the time of exercise and the exercise price. only 
target value   during the exercise periods specified by the company is it 
in €
possible to exercise the option rights. it was not possible 
/ to exercise them during the first year after the ipo.
fair value  
per option
=
number of  
granted option strike price (average for 3 months before granting)
performance period 4 years 
(cagr revenue growth)
blocking period 4 years exercise period 2 years
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
3  detailed information about sop 2017 and as yet outstanding option rights are 
contained in the section h. 01. of the consolidated financial statements.
38
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
since 2018 the performance-based compensation consists  costs on the company. hence no maximum value is pro- member terminates the employment agreement without 
of a new long-term incentive plan (ltip) that is settled in  vided for the sop. in the event of extraordinary events,  good cause (§ 626 bgb) for which the company is respon-
shares. contractually, a target value of stock options in  however, the supervisory board can, in accordance with   sible. the severance pay may not exceed the value of two 
euro is granted annually. the commitment is binding for  § 87 (1) sent. 3 aktg, set a limit to ensure the appropriate- yearsʼ total compensation and may equate at a maximum 
four years. to calculate the number of stock options (sops)  ness of the compensation. to the compensation for the remaining term of contract 
granted in a financial year, the annual target value in euro  (severance pay cap). the severance provision thus accords 
is divided by the fair value of an sop at the grant date. the  special compensation with the recommendation of the dcgk.
number of sop thus calculated is blocked for a period for  in the current year no one-time special payments were 
four years from the date on which they are granted. sub- granted. in previous year mr. thomassin was granted a  in the event of a change of control, the management board 
sequently, an exercise period of two years is provided. the  special bonus in the amount of € 200,000 to reward his  member has the right to resign from his office with three 
members of the management board do not receive any  extraordinary efforts in connection with the ipo process.  monthsʼ notice. his employment agreement also will end 
shares in the form of “restricted stock units” (rsu), as is  this ipo bonus was being paid in two tranches: 25% were  at that time. a change of control is present if:
customary in the general ltip. paid after the ipo in 2017 and 75% were paid in 2018. 
—  the company is de-listed;
the performance period, which begins one year before  pension commitments —   the management board memberʼs appointment is 
the grant date and runs for three more years from the grant  no arrangement has been made with the management  terminated by a change in the companyʼs form or by a 
date, amounts in total to four years.  board members for a company pension. merger of the company with another company, unless 
an appointment as member of the management board 
the exercisability of the sop once the blocking period ends  payments at the end of executive   of the new company on equal economic terms as 
depends on the achievement of a revenue growth target.  board service before is offered to the management board member;
the performance target is derived from the companyʼs  in the event that an management board member dies  —   an inter-company agreement according to §§ 291 et 
corporate strategy. exercise of the sop is conditional on  before the term of his service contract ends, the spouse of  seqq. aktg is made with the company as a dependent 
achievement of a compound annual revenue growth rate  the deceased is entitled to a grant of the unreduced remu- company, or the company is absorbed according to 
(cagr) of at least 20%, i.e. an average revenue growth of  neration for the month of death and the six months fol- §§ 319 et seqq. aktg;
20% annually, at the end of the performance period.  lowing it, but for no longer than until the end of the  —   a shareholder or third party directly or indirectly 
should this hurdle not be reached, all sop expire without  original term of the service contract. acquires at least 30% of the voting rights in the com-
substitute or compensation. pany, including the voting rights that are attributable 
if the service relationship ends early owing to dismissal or  to the shareholder or third party according to § 30 
there are two exercise windows in each year of the two- resignation from office, because the companyʼs legal form  wpüg (wertpapiererwerbs- und übernahmegesetz, 
year exercise period. the exercise price is equivalent to  is changed to that of a societas europaea, or as a result of  german securities acquisition and takeover act).
delivery heroʼs average share price over three months  a termination agreement, then the management board 
before the granting date. the share price at which the  members are entitled to severance pay. this does not apply 
option rights may be exercised remains unlimited in order  in the event that, in accordance with § 626 bgb, the com-
to support a strong alignment with the interests of the  pany terminates the employment agreement for good 
shareholders. because of the settlement in shares, the lack  cause for which the management board member is respon-
of a limit on the share price imposes no additional risks or  sible, respectively, in the event that the management board 
39
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
in the event of a resignation from office or dismissal owing  loans and advances
to a change of control, mr. thomassin is entitled to a  the management board members received no advances 
remuneration in the amount of 150% of the severance cap,  or loans in financial year 2018.
which may not under any circumstances remunerate more 
than the remaining term of the employment agreement.  disclosures pursuant to the requirements  
this provision is likewise devised in accordance with the  of the dcgk
relevant recommendation of the dcgk. the following tables follow the recommendations of the 
dcgk and show the individual management board mem-
the management board membersʼ contracts provide a  bersʼ individualised compensation. the table “granted 
post-contractual non-competition clause for two years.  benefits” does not show the compensation that was actu-
for the duration of this prohibition, a waiting allowance  ally paid but rather the target values (the value of the 
is provided in the amount of 50% of the remuneration last  compensation at 100% target achievement) of the com-
received by the management board member concerned.  pensation components that were granted in financial year 
other remuneration earned during the term of the com- 2018. the value of the performance-based, share-based 
petition ban is applied against the waiting allowance as  compensation components equates to the fair value at the 
far as the waiting allowance would exceed the remunera- time of their granting. besides the target values, minimum 
tion last received according to contract once the income  and maximum compensation figures also are shown. the 
from other sources is added to them. table “payout” shows the compensation actually paid (and 
hence accruing) in financial year 2018. the values “base 
salary” and “fringe benefits” correspond to the values in 
the “granted benefits” table, as they are paid irrespective 
of whether the performance targets are achieved.
40
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
granted benefits
niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin
ceo cfo
k eur 2017 2018 2018 (min) 2018 (max) 2017 2018 2018 (min) 2018 (max)
 
base salary 181.2 250.0 250.0 250.0 222.5 250.0 250.0 250.0
fringe benefits 31.3 25.0 0.0 25.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
sum 212.5 275.0 250.0 275.0 222.5 250.0 250.0 250.0
special bonus 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 210.0 0.0 0.0 n.a.
multi-year variable compensation 0.0 1,000.0 0.0 0.0 1,344.8 500.0 0.0 n.a.
vsp 2016 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 482.3 0.0 0.0 n.a.
sop 2017 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 862.5 0.0 0.0 n.a.
ltip 2018 (4 year plan term) 0.0 1,000.0 0.0 n.a. 0.0 500.0 0.0 n.a.
total compensation 212.5 1,275.0 250.0 275.0 1,777.3 750.0 250.0 n.a.
payout
niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin
ceo cfo
k eur 2017 2018 2017 2018
 
base salary 181.2 250.0 222.5 250.0
fringe benefits 31.32 25.02 0.0 0.0
sum 215.5 275.0 222.5 250.0
special bonus 0.0 0.0 60.01 150.01
multi-year variable compensation 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
vsp/sop 2017 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
ltip 2018 (4 year plan term) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
total compensation 212.5 275.0 282.5 400.0
1  mr. tomassin was granted a special bonus of € 200,000 to reward his extraordinary efforts in the ipo process. the special bonus was paid in two tranches: 25% was paid in previous year,  
the remaining 75% was paid in the current year. in addition, mr. thomassin was granted a one-time special payment in the amount of € 10,000 in the first quarter of 2017.
2 the personal budget of mr. östberg is limited to € 25,000. prior to may 2017, the personal budget of mr. östberg was not limited to € 25,000.
41
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
in the financial year, members of the management board  2018 
became entitled to 4 annual tranches of ltip with an annu-  
al grant of € 1,500k, of which € 1,000k niklas östberg and  non-performance-based  performance-based  
k eur
 components components
€ 500k emmanuel thomassin each. mr. östberg was not 
granted any virtual shares or stock options in 2017. during  ltip
the financial year and in previous year no previously grant- number  
ed compensation components were exercised. there are  base   fringe   special   allocation  of shares/  fair  
acting board members salary benefits bonus value1 options2 value3  total
still outstanding options, which have been granted in pre-
 
vious years but have not yet been exercised and may be 
niklas östberg 250.0 25.0 0.0 1,000.0 103,156 1,000.0 1,275.0
exercised during the financial year 2019 or the following 
emmanuel thomassin 250.0 0.0 150.0 500.0 51,578 500.0 900.0
years. mr. thomassin holds options, which have not yet been 
exercised, as well. total 500.0 25.0 150.0 1,500.0 154,734 1,500.0 2,175.0
1  in 2018, stock options worth € 1,500k were granted (of which € 1,000k each year is to niklas östberg and € 500k each year to emmanuel thomassin)
disclosures pursuant to the german   2 number of options granted, subject to the achievement of the performance target. information relates to the commitment for 2018. 
3  fair value at the grant date (date of the legally binding commitment). 
gaap (“hgb”) information on the valuation model can be found in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
according to the applicable international accounting stan-
dards, compensation for the management board members 
in financial year 2018 came to € 2.2 million (previous year:  2017 
€ 1.8 million), of which non-performance-based compo-
nents account for € 0.5 million (previous year: € 0.4 million)  non-performance-based  performance-based  
k eur  components components
and performance-based components account for 
€ 1.7 million (previous year: € 1.4 million). vsp/sop1
number  
the individualised total compensation received by the  base   fringe   special   allocation  of shares/  fair  
acting board members salary benefits bonus value1 options2 value3  total
management board members, broken down by non-per-
 
formance-based and performance-based compensation 
niklas östberg 181.2 31.34 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 212.2
components, can be seen in the following tables. for the 
emmanuel thomassin 222.5 0.0 60.0 1,344.8 120,000 1,344.8 1,627.3
ipo bonus that was actually granted in previous year the 
amount paid is shown in the corresponding year, while for  total 403.7 31.3 60.0 1,344.8 120,000 1,344.8 1,839.8
the multi-year components the fair value at the time of  1  in 2016, the members of the management board received virtual shares under the virtual share program (vsp).  
their granting is shown. in 2017, under the stock option program (sop 2017), the outstanding shares were converted into option rights and new options were granted.
2 number of options granted, subject to the achievement of the performance target.
3  fair value at the grant date (date of the legally binding commitment).  
information on the valuation model can be found in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
4 prior to may 2017, the personal budget of mr. östberg was not limited to € 25,000.
42
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
the expense from share-based compensation expenses   stock options sop 2017
recognized in 2018 amounted to € 1.2 million (previous  niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin
year: € 7.0 million) for mr. östberg and € 0.6 million (pre- weighted average  number of   weighted average  number of  
vious year: € 2.2 million) for mr. thomassin. exercise price in eur  options  exercise price in eur  options 
outstanding stock options 
in the financial year, a total of 103,156 new stock options in  as of jan. 1 2017  5.71   846,600   9.44   270,000
the amount of € 1.0 million was granted under the ltip to  granted in the reporting period n.a. –  16.67   120,000 
mr. östberg. mr. thomassin was granted a total of 51,578  forfeited in the reporting period n.a. – n.a. –
new stock options in the amount of € 0.5 million in 2018. 
exercised in the reporting period n.a. – n.a. –
the issue date was may 15, 2018, so that the option rights 
expired in the reporting period n.a. – n.a. –
can be exercised in financial year 2022 at the earliest. in 
outstanding stock options  
the previous year, mr. thomassin were granted in total, 
as of jan. 1 2018  5.71   846,600   11.67   390,000 
120,000 new stock option rights with a value of € 1.3 million. 
granted in the reporting period n.a. – n.a. –
the issue date was march 1, 2017 (60,000) and may 1, 2017 
forfeited in the reporting period n.a. – n.a. –
(60,000), so that the option rights can be exercised in 
financial year 2019 at the earliest. the option rights grant- exercised in the reporting period n.a. – n.a. –
ed to the management board members and outstanding  expired in the reporting period n.a. – n.a. –
are shown below: outstanding stock options 
as of dec. 31 2018 5.71 846,600 11.67 390,000
exercisable on dec. 31 2018 n.a. – n.a. –
stock options ltip 
niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin
weighted average  number of   weighted average  number of  
exercise price   options   exercise price   options  
in eur  in eur 
outstanding stock options 
as of jan. 1  n.a.   –  n.a.  –
granted in the reporting period 38.30 103,156  38.30  51,578
forfeited in the reporting period n.a. – n.a. –
exercised in the reporting period n.a. – n.a. –
expired in the reporting period n.a. – n.a. –
outstanding stock options  
as of dec. 31  38.30   103,156   38.30   51,578 
exercisable on dec. 31 2017 n.a. – n.a. –
43
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
former management board membersʼ   both management board members are subjects to the  compensation of members of the  
emoluments companyʼs directorsʼ and officersʼ liability insurance with  supervisory board of delivery hero se
as of the balance sheet date, delivery hero se has no  an insured sum within the usual market range. the insur- the compensation received by the members of the super-
pension recipients or other beneficiaries among its former  ance provides a deductible in the minimum amount of 10%  visory board is specified in § 15 of the articles of associa-
executive board members or management board mem- of the claim up to a maximum of 150% of the fixed annual  tion of delivery hero se. the chairman of the supervisory 
bers. total remuneration for former management board  salary, as prescribed by the german stock corporation act. board receives an annual fixed salary in the amount of 
members and their survivors, along with pension liabilities  € 75,000, while the deputy chairman receives a fixed s alary 
to former management board members and their sur- payments at the end of management board service in the amount of € 20,000. the chairman of the audit 
vivors, therefore amount to € 0. in the event that service on the management board is  committee receives a fixed annual salary of € 30,000. the 
terminated early before the applicable performance period  other members of the supervisory board receive a fixed 
other provisions of a current sop tranche ends, the sop expires without  annual salary of € 15,000. the chairman of the nomination 
in the event of a temporary incapacity to work occurring  substitute or compensation in the following cases: committee and the chairman of the compensation com-
because of illness, an accident, or other reason for which  mittee additionally receive a fixed annual remuneration of 
the management board member is not at fault, manage- —  revocation of the appointment for good cause € 5,000. 
ment board members continue to receive their unreduced  —  revocation of the appointment without good cause in 
remuneration for six months, but no longer than until the  the first year of the first contractual four-year commitment in addition, all out-of-pocket expenses incurred in the 
term of their employment agreements ends. mr. thomas- —   the management board memberʼs resignation from  performance of the duties as supervisory board member 
sin is to receive for another six months, no longer than  office in the first two years of any contractual commit- as well as the value added tax on the supervisory board 
until the term of his employment agreement ends, a pay- ment compensation are reimbursed.
ment in the amount of 80% of his remuneration.
otherwise the management board members are entitled  for service in a committee of the supervisory board an 
to the already non-forfeitable sop at the normal end of  annual salary of € 2,000 is granted in addition. the chair-
the blocking period. man of the audit committee receives no additional com-
mittee salary.
44
corporate governance 
annual report 2018
the individual values for the financial year are shown in 
the following table.
fixed salary committee compensation total compensation
eur 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
 
martin  enderle 75,000.00 26,821.92 9,057.53 2,739.73 84,057.53 29,561.64
georg graf von waldersee (until 13.07.2018) – 3,821.92 15,945.21 10,126.03 15,945.21 13,947.95
patrick kolek 17,342.47 – 15,090.41 – 24,117.81 –
jeff liebermann (until 13.07.2018) 10,630.14 11,369.86 2,126.03 1,808.22 12,756.16 13,178.08
jonathan green (until 13.07.2018) 7,972.60 8,876.71 – – 7,972.60 8,876.71
lukasz  gadowski (until 15.12.2017) – 8,219.18 – – – 8,219.18
kolja  hebenstreit (until 03.06.2017) – – – – – –
janis zech (from 06.06.2018 until 13.07.2018) 1,561.64 – – – 1,561.64 –
vera stachowiak (from 13.07.2018) 7,068.49 – 838.36 – 7,906.85 –
hilary gosher (from 13.07.2018) 7,068.49 – 1,676.71 – 8,745.21 –
semih yalcin (from 13.07.2018) – 7,068.49 – 7,068.49 –
björn ljungberg (from 13.07.2018) 7,068.49 – 838.36 – 7,906.85 –
total 133,712.33 59,109.59 52,641.10 14,673.98 178,038.36 73,783.57
 
the supervisory board member jonathan green has waived 
his compensation. in the financial year of 2018, a total of 
€ 28,053 has been reimbursed for expenses.
45
non financial statement for the group 
annual report 2018
non­
corporate governance, responsibility   our brands around the world contribute to this strategy 
and  sustainability in many different ways and i’m proud of the progress our 
financial  team has already made. at the same time, i am also certain 
letter from the ceo that a lot remains to be done and we continue to build our 
capabilities in those areas. i truly believe that for a com-
statement  dear shareholders, dear colleagues, dear readers, pany to be successful in the long-term it has to lead not 
only in commercial success but also in taking responsibil-
besides delivering great customer experiences and fast  ity for the many other challenges the world faces today. 
for the 
growth, it is extremely important to me that we take our 
corporate responsibility seriously – that includes social as  please find in the following section an overview of where 
group well as environmental and governance questions. to give  we stand today on some of these topics and what we plan 
the topic enough importance, we have included in our  for the future. i look forward to continuously improving 
ambitious goals for the end of 2019 to build a great cor- in all of these areas and providing ever more transparency 
porate responsibility and sustainability program.  on these issues to our various stakeholders. 
in 2018 our main focus was on identifying key issues and 
setting out a framework for our corporate responsibility  yours, 
and sustainability. for 2018/19 that strategy is set along  niklas 
the following pillars: 
—   giving back: to local communities through food dona-
tion and volunteering programs
—   the environment: understanding and improving our 
greenhouse gas footprint and finding ways to package 
delivered food more sustainably
—   diversity and inclusion: creating a diverse and inclu-
sive workplace with equal opportunities for everyone
46
non financial statement for the group 
annual report 2018
sustainability at delivery hero delivery hero has not yet defined any nonfinancial perfor- strategy and materiality
sustainable thinking and action based on fixed values and  mance indicators relevant to management in accordance  the materiality analysis, which we carried out during the 
principles – these are essential foundations of delivery   with section 289c (3) no. 5 hgb. furthermore, there is no  reporting period, assesses and prioritizes the relevance of 
hero’s success. the company assumes responsibility  direct connection between the amounts reported in the  social, environmental and governance issues for delivery  
towards society as a whole and follows the principle of  annual financial statements pursuant to section 289c (3)  hero and its stakeholders, in order to support the organi-
sustainable development. in this way, we contribute to  no. 6 hgb and nonfinancial concerns. zationʼs decision-making and strategy development pro-
creating stable economic, social and ecological conditions  cess. from this process, the material topics for delivery hero 
for present and future generations. business model are obtained, which are the ones able to affect the value 
information on delivery hero's business model can be  creation for the company, and at the same time, are rec-
in 2018, we will report for the first time in reference with  found in the group management report 2018 on page 57. ognized as being important for delivery heroʼs different 
the gri standards of the global reporting initiative. we  stakeholders.
intend to expand this reporting in the future and, thus,  risk management
meet the requirements for transparent sustainability  in order to ensure sustainable business success, it is crucial  the delivery hero materiality process followed the follow-
reporting. our investor relations and pr departments can  that delivery hero recognizes significant risks and oppor- ing steps:
help with any questions you may have about our report.  tunities that can influence the business at an early stage. 
for the first time, we have created a gri content index,  for this reason, delivery hero has established a risk man-
which can be found on page 161 et seq. agement system that is designed to manage future chal-
1. identification
lenges. the risk management function is performed by the 
furthermore, this nonfinancial statement for the group  governance, risk & compliance (grc) department.
(nfs) of the delivery hero group (hereinafter referred to 
as delivery hero) has been prepared in accordance with  delivery hero generally assesses risks from a net perspec-
y 
ttmoha eet  ieonrffi otahrlm,e e agnteivorimrno arnenmq cueoinrmetadml ,ue enrcmdiaeplr l csooeydceteei o,( hnsogs c3bi1)a5 wl ,b i,at hcn  daren hgdua 2rmd8 9atnob    tcnioovne mn aeafctteetirro itanal k wriinistgkhs  rt hwiseke -ermeff ieitdcigetsan totiinnfi geth dme t ehfiaavsetu  anrreoesn  aifinsntsoaon cacicaicatoel uidsn swut.ei tisnh,    erialit mevaatleuraiatlioitny   evalu2. inte
rights, and the fight against corruption and bribery.  trheela ctioomnsphainpys’,s  porwond ubuctssin, easnsd a csteirvvitiiceess o trh watit hh aitvse b suesrinioeusss   mat process tionrna
within the individual aspects, the underlying concepts and  negative effects on nonfinancial issues. 4.   l  
due diligence processes are discussed and existing results 
are reported. in accordance with section 315b (1) sentence 3  further information on risk management at delivery hero 
hgb, reference is also made to nonfinancial information  can be found in the risk and opportunities report 2018 on  3. external 
in the combined management report on individual  page 72 et seq.  evaluation
aspects. in addition, the nfs reports significant risks in 
accordance with section 289c (3) no. 3 and 4 hgb if the 
information is necessary for an understanding of the 
course of business, the business result, the position of the 
group, and its effects on nonfinancial matters.
47
non financial statement for the group 
annual report 2018
1. i dentification of the topics that are potentially relevant  in 2018, as a result of the process implemented and of the  nonfinancial aspect material topic page
for delivery hero which need to be considered in the  analysis conducted, seven material topics were identified  cross-cutting  
process of reviewing the materiality matrix identified  according to the matrix below. these topics differ from the  issue, affects all   laws and  
nonfinancial aspects regulations 51
through an analysis of the context and of the global,  topics defined as material in the last report due to the new 
sectoral and organizational trends. materiality analysis. environmental concerns packaging use and  
disposal 52
employee concerns occupational health and 
2.  internal evaluation of the impact of each of the topics  besides the material topics identified in this way, delivery  
safety 54
on delivery heroʼs vision, strategy and performance. the  hero is fully committed to the worldwide observance of 
employee satisfaction 54
impact of the issues should be evaluated taking into  human rights in everything we do. we actively oppose 
consideration their magnitude and probability of occur- forced or compulsory labor of any kind, all other forms of  delivery hero as an 
employer 53-54
rence. at this stage, the key stakeholders that need to  modern slavery, child labor, and human trafficking. 
be involved in the materiality review process are iden-  discrimination and inequality in employment and occupa- social concerns/ general data protection 
fighting corruption   regulation1 51-52
tified. tion have no place at delivery hero either. for us this is an 
and bribery
integral and natural part of doing business anywhere in  data leakage 51-52
3.  external evaluation of the importance of the topics, from  our global markets and we have thus not included this 
1  this issue concerns both social issues and fighting corruption and bribery.
the perspective of key stakeholders, by conducting a  topic separately in the materiality matrix. furthermore, we 
consultation process with these stakeholders. will report on the topics of “emissions” and “social respon-
sibility” on a voluntary basis.
4.  review of the issuesʼ materiality matrix, presenting the 
most relevant subjects under two dimensions, the key 
stakeholdersʼ perspective and the organizationʼs per-
spective. 
48
non financial statement for the group 
annual report 2018
materialty matrix of delivery hero
h 
g
hi ads ealniv eemryp hloeyreor   paancdk adgiisnpgo suasle  data leakage 
gdpr
occupational 
laws and  health and 
regulations safety 
employee 
satisfaction
food quality 
product  and safety 
certification/
information
performance 
supplier 
relationship 
n management
o
ti
p
e
c
r
e
p
sʼ 
r
e
d
l
o
h
e
k
a
t
s
w
o
l
low high 
delivery hero's perception
49
non financial statement for the group 
annual report 2018
stakeholders engagement investors and shareholders customer 
our stakeholders are key to our business, therefore, to build 
and maintain a close relationship and dialogue with them 
we are commited to growing and increasing   we are focused on improving our customers livesʼ  
is critical to our success. to define and implement a sustain-
the return on investment of our investors. by providing amazing and innovative services  
ability strategy, delivery hero developed a stakeholdersʼ 
and good food.
consultation engagement process through which we 
annual financial statements, provisional  
actively collect their expectations and ideas, on an ongoing 
reports, investor meetings, dedicated   satisfaction surveys, social media, brand  
basis. this enables key-stakeholders participation to help 
email communications.  studies (focus groups + surveys) 
us define our sustainability roadmap definition, which is 
constantly updated with their feedback in an agile manner.
employees restaurant partners and suppliers 
we want to motivate and engage our people   we intent to impement high social ethical and  
so they can achieve their maximum. environmental standards in all relationships with  
our partners and suppliers.
engagement survey, performance management process,  
all-hands/update meetings, supervisory board representation engagement surveys (restaurant nps), account management 
operations, supplier onboarding
local community  regulators 
we are determined to improve the communities   we are interested in maintaining an open dialogue  
where we operate and work in. with regulators and being compliant with legalisation  
and regulation.
volunteering program, conferences 
dialogue with regulators in local markets 
why is the stakeholder important? examples of engagement activities/resources
50
non financial statement for the group 
annual report 2018
laws and regulations mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics data protection and privacy
one material topic for delivery hero to operate sustainably  every employee at delivery hero is responsible for address- the growing competitiveness in the markets where 
in the long term is to be compliant with all laws and regu- ing violations or potential violations of the laws, the  delivery hero has operations requires an increasing focus 
lations in the markets we operate. below we outline some  delivery hero code of conduct or internal policies. to  on the customer, especially on the continuous improve-
of the ethical and legal standards we hold ourselves  report serious compliance breaches and illegal business  ment of their experience. in a context of high digitalization 
accountable to. practices an internet-based whistleblower platform was  and more informed, proactive and demanding customers, 
made available in multiple languages and is available  it becomes clear that technology should be used to achieve 
values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior  around the clock. our whistleblower system guarantees  and ensure our clients maximum satisfaction, while hand-
we act within the framework of ethics, integrity and appli- an anonymous submission and the highest level of secu- ling their data with care.
cable laws and always in the interest of delivery hero.  rity for whistleblowers. employees should first contact 
delivery hero does not tolerate any form of fraud, bribery/ their supervisor or their respective compliance depart- scope of companyʼs publicly available  
corruption or other forms of non-compliant behavior by  ment and make use of the whistleblower platform only in  data protection policy
our employees or other stakeholders. we expect from our  cases where this appears not possible. all reported issues  the privacy policies of all platforms in the eu are  currently 
employees not to engage in any activity or perform tasks  are carefully assessed by delivery hero and in appropriate  being processed. upload of the updated version will be 
that are contrary to the interests of delivery hero. all busi- cases, the case is managed as per the regulations and  implemented by february. the compliance level of our 
ness decisions need to be made solely in the best interests  procedures for handling reported compliance concerns.  corporate website (deliveryhero.com) is currently not at 
of the company, not for personal benefit. these business  the confidentiality of information given by the individual  the required level and will also be revised within the speci-
practices have been documented in a code of conduct  reporting a compliance violation is protected to the maxi- fied period. the privacy policies of the operating compa-
which is distributed within the organization and updated  mum extent possible. the recipient of the information of  nies comply with the requirements of art. 13 and 14 gdpr. 
regularly. the local companies are responsible for signing  delivery hero may share it only on a need-to-know basis  the adjustments to these privacy policies will be marginal.
and communicating the code of conduct. consistent with applicable law. delivery hero respects the 
request of confidentiality and anonymous reporting.
51
non financial statement for the group 
annual report 2018
rights provided to individuals regarding   scope of employee training on data security and/or  delivery heroʼs management approach to the topic is 
the control of their data privacy related risks & procedures currently decentralised. those brands/management enti-
all customer care agents have been trained to deal appro- every employee has to complete a compulsory data pro- ties which offer to sell packaging materials to restaurants 
priately with data subject requests and necessary templates  tection training once a year and pass a test. in addition,  are responsible for sourcing appropriate packaging mate-
have been provided. our customers can exercise their data  department-specific training is carried out to take account  rial independently. this works well given the highly local 
subject rights at any time by sending their requests to the  of the relevant special requirements and to increase aware- nature of our business and the respective different needs 
e-mail addresses specified in the privacy policies or to  ness. for example: gdpr specifications for the hire-2-retire  of markets. in order to improve this approach further, we 
dpo@deliveryhero.com. these will then be answered after  process; privacy by design and default for product and tech  are currently working on providing central support with 
verification of identity within the legal deadline. on many  departments, and others. establishing a list of preferred suppliers of sustainable 
platforms, a gdpr function was integrated into the  packaging options.
accounts of the customers, which simplifies and guarantees  packaging use and disposal
the exercise of the data subject rights. via this function,  as one of the focus areas of our sustainability strategy is  besides improving the sourcing of materials delivery hero 
customers can view the stored data, submit advertising  the environment, we believe that one important topic for  resells to our restaurant partners, there are many other 
objections and delete their accounts at any time. the  our company is sustainable food packaging. initiatives the company can take to improve the sustain-
deletion takes place within 48 hours by overwriting the  ability of food packaging used for deliveries. some of our 
personal data several times.  materials and sourcing brands have implemented opt-out features for takeaway 
while delivery heroʼs restaurant partners mostly source  cutlery, thus significantly reducing the number of plastic 
information security policies and   their own food packaging materials, delivery hero also  and single-use cutlery by our restaurants. furthermore, 
system audit frequency sells some packaging materials to restaurants and can help  some of our brands have invested into educating our 
delivery hero is committed to protecting the data of our  educate restaurants about the sustainability of materials  restaurant partners about sustainable packaging options 
customers and employees. irrespective of external audits,  used as well as help to provide access to sustainable alter- and which materials to avoid because of their ecological 
systems that have been assessed as potentially risky accord- natives to some traditional food packaging options. footprints. as this is a key pillar in our corporate respon-
ing to internal risk analyses are subjected to a data protec- sibility and sustainability framework, we continue to 
tion impact assessment and continuously reviewed as part  explore other options to contribute to a better food- 
of a monitoring process. in addition, penetration tests are  delivery packaging ecosystem.
carried out regularly and adjustments made, if needed. 
52
non financial statement for the group 
annual report 2018
delivery hero as an employer one of the many initiatives to ensure an engaged work- on a process level, our people operations teams are com-
one of the keys for delivery heroʼs current and future  force at delivery hero is running regular global employee  mitted to creating processes that prevent any systematic 
success is our highly qualified and engaged employee base.  engagement surveys to inform people policies and mea- biases from manifesting. for this purpose we are constant-
attracting and retaining great talent is essential. we are  sure their effectiveness. ly reviewing the results of hiring, performance manage-
committed to building a great employee experience and  ment, promotion and compensation processes from a 
hired a chief people officer to the management team of  diversity and equal opportunity  diversity and inclusiveness perspective. our clear goal is 
delivery hero to help us achieve this. delivery hero wants to be a diverse and inclusive  company  to pay employees solely based on performance and their 
that provides equal opportunities to all employees and  respective roles and we take measures to ensure that this 
employment reflects the customers and markets we serve. through  is the outcome of our people processes. 
delivery hero employs thousands of people across the  diversity, we can develop the products, platforms and 
world at a variety of different levels of seniority. our work  services that engage our broad customer base most effec- we also aim to create an inclusive work environment by 
with restaurants drives further employment, helping to  tively, while also motivating and engaging our people.  enabling flexible work-from-home policies where opera-
create jobs in the communities we operate in. delivery hero is therefore committed to creating an  equally  tionally feasible as well as the opportunity to work in part 
great workplace for every one of its employees.  time roles. 
the companyʼs approach to people operations is both 
central and decentralised. on a central level the company  we have therefore set up a program that addresses the  finally, we are also committed to assessing our physical 
has built out centers of expertise in various areas such as  topic on three levels: tone from the top, people operations  office space and improve its inclusiveness whenever any 
compensation and benefits, systems, recruiting that allow  processes, and employee engagement.  changes, renovations or expansions are contemplated. 
us to provide state of the art employee services at a  global 
scale. in parallel, hr leaders in delivery heroʼs local sub- the tone from the top is being established through an  besides the above measures driven by senior management 
sidiaries ensure that the employee experience is tailored  inclusive leadership agenda. our senior leadership teams  and our people operations teams, our employees are also 
to local market requirements and we operate in line with  are undertaking unconscious bias training, run by an  contributing to an inclusive work environment by forming 
local market regulation.  external consultant. we also engaged external support to  employee groups (e.g. our “women-in-tech” initiative). we 
review both quantitative data and gather qualitative  fully support these activities and aim to provide more 
insights. the findings have been presented to our senior  resources and structure to them in the future in order to 
leadership team and are informing the further develop- enable meaningful employee engagement on the topics 
ment of our diversity and inclusion program. of diversity and inclusion. 
53
non financial statement for the group 
annual report 2018
besides the above initiatives, delivery hero is of course  any risks or hazards that are identified can be reported  to enable us to respond to the needs of our employees, 
committed to adhering to all global and local regulation.  both through regular management channels as well as  we conduct ongoing employee surveys. in this way we 
this in particular includes compliance with the law for  using the whistleblower hotline provided by the company  determine the general level of satisfaction and get a direct 
promotion of remuneration transparency between  to ensure that both identified risks as well as incidents will  picture of our working atmosphere. from the results, we 
 women and men (entgelttransparenzgesetz). the reports  be investigated and future risks prevented. derive concrete measures that should contribute to main-
required under this law are published separately to this  taining or even improving employee satisfaction at a high 
report.  in many markets we also provide work-related accident  level in the long term. a continuous improvement of the 
insurance to our employees, often going beyond the  employee satisfaction is an integral part of our corporate 
the diversity of our governance bodies is disclosed in the  required local legislation. in the context of implementing  strategy and the entire management team works contin-
corporate governance section of the annual report 2018. these insurance policies, risks are appropriately identified  uously on designing and implementing appropriate 
and incidents reported in order to provide transparency   measures.
occupational health and safety for the responsible management. 
as delivery hero employs a large number of people, many 
of which work in our own delivery fleet, occupational health  employee satisfaction
and safety is a topic of major interest to delivery hero.  delivery hero wants to maintain the satisfaction of its 
employees and use their potential for improvement in 
we ensure that all employees are appropriately trained  order to strengthen identification with the company in the 
and educated about measures to avoid accidents and  long term. we always pay attention to the needs of our 
provide a safe working environment for everyone. this is  employees and observe trends and developments in order 
done via training both in presence and online during our  to maintain a good competitive position in the hard-fought 
various onboarding process. for our delivery personnel,  market for qualified employees in the long term. concrete 
this includes trainings on various aspects of road safety,  measures have been developed for this purpose, which are 
compliance with local traffic regulation and avoidance of  currently either in the planning stage or will be continued 
accidents.  on an ongoing basis.
54
non financial statement for the group 
annual report 2018
additional topics our management approach to this topic is centralised as  in addition to our existing activities, we introduced a 
calculating an accurate greenhouse gas footprint requires  corporate volunteering program in 2018. within this pro-
emissions special expertise and we want to ensure a consistent  gram, our employees can support an initiative of their 
within the framework of our sustainability strategy we  methodology used. therefore, we have a project team in  choice in accordance with our guidelines and offer their 
also identified the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions  our central team at delivery hero se level which is collect- support without having to take a day off. such employee 
as an important objective and hence disclose our manage- ing data from our local businesses and works with the  engagement is also supported and encouraged on an 
ment approach below although it was not identified as  consultancy to calculate the greenhouse gas footprint  ongoing basis.
material according to the analysis described on page 47 et  (in t co equivalent). where accurate data is not available, 
2
seq. we use estimations in line with common and accepted  as an operator of food delivery services, the topic of food 
approaches. we are currently finalising the calculation of  and nutrition is of particular importance to us. this is why 
as global warming is a global issue, we believe that it is  the footprint for some of our legal entities in 2017 and are  some of our subsidiaries, in cooperation with local organ-
every businessʼ responsibility to have awareness of its  working on gathering data for the year 2018. isations and in part with the involvement of our customers, 
contribution to the emission of greenhouse gases and  have been committed to donating meals. in 2018, a six- 
explore ways of reducing its impact.  social responsibility figure number of meals was donated. for the coming year, 
initiative and the berliner tafel food pantry in 2017 and  we plan to continue and even expand this program. 
in order to do so for delivery hero we have engaged a  2018 with donations in kind and in cash. furthermore, we 
consultancy to help measure and identify reduction oppor- participated in the “give & help day” of woloho and 
tunities for our greenhouse gas footprint. as delivery hero  youngcaritas. delivery hero has provided food for this 
operates a marketplace business, we differentiate between  purpose.
emissions (scope 1, 2 and 3 ) that are directly caused by 
delivery hero, i.e. our own delivery fleets, materials we sell  in 2018, delivery hero presented the “hero award for social 
to restaurants, our internal operations and the emissions  entrepreneurship” for the second time, which is endowed 
caused by our partners, e.g. packaging sourced by restau- with € 15,000. the winner was share, a social brand that 
rants from third parties, our restaurant partners delivery  focuses on the 1+1 principle. for every share protein bar, 
activities etc. we thus want to ensure that we have an  bottle of water or hand soap that’s sold, the company 
accurate understanding of which emissions we can opera- provides one meal, one day’s water supply, or one piece 
tionally reduce as we directly control them and which  of soap to a person in need. in addition, we support share 
emissions are created in relation to our activities but  with a mentoring program. within this program, delivery  
without our direct control. hero experts and managers pass on their expertise in 
relevant specialist areas to the company. the hero award 
will be continued and presented in 2019.
55
combined management report 
combined  
a. group profile page 57
  01. business model
  02. corporate strategy
  03. group structure
management     04. segments
  05. management system
  06. research and development
b. economic report page 61
report   01. market and industry environment
  02. business performance
  03. n  et assets, financial position and results of operations 
  04. employees
c. risk and opportunity report page 72
  01. risk policy principles and risk strategy 
  02. g  roup-wide risk management system (rms)
  03. s ystem of internal financial reporting controls
  04. internal audit system
  05. risk report as of december 31, 2018
  06. opportunity report
d. subsequent events and outlook page 81
  01. subsequent events
  02. outlook
e. other disclosures page 83
  01.  takeover-related information pursuant to sections 289a (1) 
and 315a (1) of the german commercial code (hgb)
  02. c ompensation report pursuant to sections 289a (2)  
and 315a (2) of the german commercial code (hgb)
  03. corporate governance code
  04. nonfinancial report 
  05. treasury shares
f.  supplementary management report to the separate  
financial statements of delivery hero se page 84
  01. business model
  02. n  et assets, financial positions and result of operations  
of the  company
try out our interactive table of contents.  
you will be directed to the selected page.
combined management report 
annual report 2018
a. group profile food ordering platforms, the group also offers own deliv- 02. corporate strategy
ery services to restaurants without this capability. the own 
01. business model delivery fleet is coordinated using proprietary dispatch  delivery heroʼs operational success is a result of the vision 
software. and clear focus to create an amazing on-demand experi-
the delivery hero se (the “company”) and its consolidat- ence. while food delivery is and will remain the core  pillar 
ed subsidiaries, together delivery hero group (also dh,  delivery hero generates a large portion of its revenue from  of our business, we also follow our customersʼ demands 
dh group, delivery hero or group), provide online and  online marketplace services, primarily on the basis of  for an increasing offering of convenience services. con-
food delivery services in over 40 countries in four   orders placed. these commission fees are based on a con- sumers have ever higher expectations of services like ours 
geographical segments, comprising europe, middle east  tractually specified percentage of the order value. the per- and because of this we are focusing more and more on 
and north africa (mena), asia and the americas. centage varies depending on the country, type of restau- broader on-demand needs. we have therefore upgraded 
rant and services provided, such as the use of a point of  our vision accordingly to: always delivering amazing 
following the conversion from a german stock corpora- sale system, last mile delivery and marketing support.  experiences – fast, easy and to your door.
tion (aktiengesellschaft, ag) to a european public  company 
(societas europaea, se), which became effective with the  in addition to commissions, delivery hero generates  amazing food: ensuring the right quantity, quality  
entry in the commercial register on july 13, 2018, the com- non-commission based revenue in particular with premi- and variety of restaurants in every neighborhood
pany has been trading as delivery hero se with its regis- um placements. premium placement means that, for a fee,  in order to meet the demands of our customers, delivery  
tered office in berlin. further information on the group  restaurants are ranked on top among all the listed restau- hero first needs to determine what they are looking for, 
structure and segments can be found in the chapters  rants in their relevant delivery area displayed in a specific  by focusing on three key factors: quantity, quality and vari-
“group structure” and “segments”. manner. furthermore, delivery hero generates revenue  ety. delivery hero analyzes cuisine type data in a given 
from delivery fees. neighborhood and ensures that a sufficient number of 
the subsidiaries of the group operate internet platforms  restaurants of each type is available on the platform. 
under various brand names, where users of the platform  alongside the management of the group, delivery hero se  delivery heroʼs data-driven approach is actively managing 
are referred to restaurants and provided with food deliv- assumes a range of it, marketing and other services, in  the restaurant offering to optimize the product on a local 
ery services. the delivery hero internet platforms are  particular commercial and technical consultancy services.  level and improving choice based on demographic char-
aligned to the demands of the local end customers who  in addition, as a holding delivery hero se assumes func- acteristics (for example density) and demand. 
can choose from a wide range of menu items from restau- tions such as group controlling and accounting, public rela-
rants in their neighborhood. orders can be placed by app  tions, investor relations, risk management and human  the number of restaurants grew 53% in 2018 offering a 
or via website and are subsequently paid either in cash or  resources management. wide choice to the customers. this expansion is also driv-
via online payment methods. as an option, delivery hero  en by the continued rollout of own delivery capacities that 
offers its partner restaurants point of sale system in order  the delivery hero groupʼs business model is based on the  allows delivery hero to connect restaurants to the plat-
for them to immediately view and accept orders made on  vision of the management team to provide platform users  form that customers did not have access to before.
the platform. furthermore, delivery hero offers products  with an amazing on-demand experience. this includes an 
and services for restaurants, such as food packaging,  appealing and seamless handling of the order as well as a 
advertising and printing services. in addition to the online  first-class quality of food and a top delivery service.
57
combined management report 
annual report 2018
amazing ordering: ensuring the ordering experience  operations. for full transparency to the customers delivery   once up to scale, delivery hero observes a similar gross 
is convenient, inspirational, simple and personalized hero improved the reliability of the live tracking and sta- profit contribution per order when delivery hero provides 
delivery hero is passionate about taking the customersʼ  tus update feature.  own delivery services for third-party delivery. 
ordering experience to the next level. each day delivery  
hero focuses on simplifying and personalizing the prod- moreover, in 2018 delivery hero continued to roll out the  shared & virtual kitchens
uct. restaurant and rider technologies globally.  delivery hero has continued to test shared and virtual 
kitchens in selected cities globally. shared and virtual kitch-
in 2018, delivery hero continued to focus on key product  third generation delivery company:   ens allow delivery hero to lever further the operational 
improvements especially around personalization and rec- innovation as part of the dna expertise and breadth of data in order to reach new levels 
ommendation features which were rolled out to 23 coun- delivery hero is particularly proud to hold innovation at  of restaurant efficiencies and economics versus the tradi-
tries by the end of the year. delivery hero was able to lever  the core of its culture, as it is the key strength when it  tional brick and mortar type of restaurants. 
on millions of data points from customers in the 41 coun- comes to tackling a trillion-dollar food delivery market 
tries of operation. artificial intelligence backed systems  opportunity, that is still very much in its infancy. eventually, delivery hero will get to a point where the cus-
and advanced technology allows delivery hero to improve  tomer can have food delivered in higher quality and at low-
the ordering experience with every order that delivery hero  as a result, 2018 delivery hero saw a roll out of many new  er costs. this proposition will give further leeway for 
processes. features and additional products, driving trends that were  growth by underpinning customer ordering behavior. 
developing in the delivery sector. this continuous focus 
amazing service: ensuring that food is delivered   on innovation will ensure that delivery hero is able to pro- delivery of additional convenience items
quickly, reliably, and can be tracked in real time vide the customers with the most convenient, personal- delivery hero has also developed technology and execu-
delivery hero strives to provide fast and reliable service to  ized takeaway experience.  tion capabilities that allow the delivery of other on- demand 
the customers with real-time updates. delivery hero  tightly  items such as groceries, flowers etc. this offering is driven 
manages all steps in the food delivery lifecycle, including  the bigger consumer demand for on-demand type of ser- by increased consumer demand for on-demand services. 
transmission, delivery and post-order services. delivery   vices encouraged delivery hero to extend the product  delivery hero continues to roll out these capabilities in 
hero is deeply integrated with the operations of the restau- offering beyond the core online food ordering business  selected markets. as a result, delivery hero has seen an 
rant partners, which allows delivery hero to learn the cook- model. in 2018, delivery hero took the decision to become  increase in order by adding additional convenience items. 
ing times of the dishes and ensure the food is ready exact- a third-generation delivery company. driving those inno-
ly at the time the delivery rider arrives at the restaurant,  vations will allow the platform to reach new levels of cus- based on customer demand and feedback delivery hero 
all to improve speed, reliability and food quality.  tomer frequencies and retention rates.  is able to obtain valuable insights relevant for the intro-
duction of additional verticals to the product offering.
delivery hero works to improve the delivery experience to  own delivery
the customers by providing the restaurant with a propri- in 2018, delivery hero scaled delivery capabilities globally. 
etary “restaurant partner solution (rps)” technology that  by the end of 2018, delivery heroʼs riders were delivering 
allows for better management of the delivery process and  over 7 million own delivery orders per months at improved 
improves the efficiency of delivery heroʼs own  delivery  efficiencies. furthermore, delivery hero now offers deli-
very in over 200 cities globally.
58
combined management report 
annual report 2018
03. group structure in germany, the group was represented with the brands  mena
pizza.de, lieferheld and foodora. on december 20, 2018  operating activities in the mena segment significantly 
the parent company delivery hero se (previously delivery   the company signed a transaction document with take- contribute to the number of orders and the gross merchan-
hero ag) (the “company”) was founded with its headquar- away.com n.v. (“takeaway.com”) pursuant to which  dise volume of the group. in the mena segment, 
ters in berlin in 2011 and has since expanded its presence  delivery hero sold its german food delivery businesses,  delivery hero is represented in the markets of bahrain, 
in local markets worldwide with various brands.  including all three brands to takeaway.com n.v. (the  egypt, jordan, kingdom of saudi arabia (ksa), kuwait, 
delivery hero group comprises 126 companies as of report- “transaction”). the transaction was completed on april  oman, qatar, turkey and the united arab emirates (uae) 
ing date (previous year: 137 companies). for further details,  01, 2019. the german businesses are reflected in the per- with their local brands. 
refer to section d. 01. of the consolidated financial state- formance of the segment europe until december 31, 2018 
ments. delivery hero exercises either direct or indirect con- (refer to section a. 02. and d. 03. e) of the consolidated  delivery hero has a strong position in many countries of 
trol over all subsidiaries. financial statements).  the mena region. in turkey, the most mature of our food 
delivery market in the mena segment, the group is repre-
04. segments in europe the group is further represented in austria,  bosnia  sented with the yemeksepeti brand which was founded in 
and herzegovina, bulgaria, croatia, the czech  republic,  2001 and has been part of the delivery hero group since 
the business of delivery hero is divided into the following   finland, greece, hungary, montenegro, norway, romania,  2015.
four geographical segments:  serbia and sweden with their local brands. 
in 2018, the carriage group which was acquired in june 
—  europe, in order to further strengthen our market positions,  2017 and operates in bahrain, ksa, kuwait, uae and qatar, 
—  mena (middle east & north africa), delivery hero made strategic investments in the greek mar- is reflected for the first time in the mena segment for a 
—  asia and  ket by acquiring deliveras s.a. (“deliveras”) in january 2018  complete 12 month period. 
—  americas. and in hungary with the acquisition of euró magyarország 
kft. (“pizza.hu”) in may 2018 (refer to section i of the con- asia
the services and order platforms are aligned to local  solidated financial statements). further, in july 2018  the group has a strong presence in south korea where the 
 market circumstances and the respective competitive sit- delivery hero group strategically invested into the roma- group operates the yogiyo, baedaltong and foodfly 
uation.  nian market by acquiring cloud treats romania sa (“hip- brands. while yogiyo is a classic website for online food 
menu” and “hipdelivery”), an online food delivery mar- ordering, baedaltong operates a click-to-call business. this 
the mena segment includes turkey, the asia segment  ketplace in romania offering both, marketplace and own  is designed like an industry directory for restaurants that 
includes australia, while canada is part of the americas  delivery services to end customers. connect users directly with the restaurant via a website. 
segment. foodfly is a food delivery platform with its own delivery 
the sale of the hungryhouse business in united kingdom  service that was added to the portfolio in october 2017 as 
europe to just eat was completed on january 31, 2018 for a consid- part of the acquisition of fly & company, inc.
in europe, delivery hero operates with both business  eration of £ 240 million (€ 272.5 million). in the course of 
 models – marketplace as well as own delivery. further market consolidation measures, the group sold its 
business in switzerland and italy and divested its foodora 
businesses in france and netherlands.
59
combined management report 
annual report 2018
further asian markets in which delivery hero group is  05. management system delivery hero also uses various nonfinancial performance 
present comprise various young markets with high growth  indicators to manage the group:
potential such as bangladesh, hong kong, malaysia, pakis- delivery hero seʼs management board consists of two 
tan, the philippines, singapore, taiwan and thailand. many  members. the management board is responsible for the  —   orders2 is a key performance indicator that drives 
of these businesses are operating an own delivery model,  strategy and management of the group. the ceo niklas  revenue and growth. in 2018 orders of the segments 
few are mixed models which cater both own delivery and  östberg is responsible for the areas strategy, operations,  increased by 37.8%. excluding german businesses on 
marketplace services. technology, personnel, marketing, public relations and  a like-for-like basis3 orders grew in 2018 year-on-year 
investor relations. emmanuel thomassin is responsible for  by 48.8%.
the australian business which was operating under the  the areas finance, purchasing, legal, internal audit, as well  —   gross merchandise value4 (gmv) is directly influ-
foodora brand was closed in the third quarter 2018.  as governance, risk and compliance. the supervisory  enced by the number of orders and has an instant 
board advises and supervises the management board. the  impact on revenues. it is one of the key elements 
americas supervisory board is involved in transactions of fundamen- controlled by our management. in 2018 gmv of the 
in the americas segment, nine geographical markets are  tal importance to the company. segments increased by 33.3%. on like-for-like  
part of the delivery hero portfolio, including canada,  basis gmv grew in 2018 year-on-year by 42.3% 
where the group is represented with the foodora brand.  the management board steers the group both at a seg-
ment level (i.e. europe, mena, asia and the americas) and 
in latin america, delivery hero operates primarily the  consolidated group level. the key financial performance  fy fy 2017 change
2018 (lfl)1 (lfl)1
brands pedidosya and clickdelivery, which have been part  indicators monitored are total segment revenues and 
of the group since 2014. pedidosya was founded in 2008  adjusted ebitda1.  
group
and connects customers and restaurants in argentina, 
bolivia, chile, panama, paraguay and uruguay. click delivery  orders (million) 369.4 248.3 48.8%
operates in columbia, ecuador and peru.  gmv (eur million) 4,454.4 3,130.8 42.3%
1 lfl – like-for-like
in the third quarter of 2018 the group sold its brazilian 
business to ifood. furthermore, acquisitions of smaller 
businesses in bolivia (“netcomidas”) and ecuador (“mega-
1 p erformance measure not defined by international financial reporting  2 o  rders represent orders made by end consumers in the period indicated. 
bite”) as well as of restaurant contracts in argentina from  standards (ifrs).adjusted ebitda is defined as earnings before income taxes,  orders for our korean click-to-call operations (similar to a restaurant-specific 
ifood were executed in 2018. financial result, depreciation and amortization and non-operating earnings  business directory where customers click on a button that will connect them 
effects. non-operating earnings effects comprise, in particular (i) expenses  directly with the restaurant via telephone) have been estimated based on the 
for share-based compensation, (ii) expenses for services in connection with  number of phone calls made by users to restaurants through these click-to-
corporate transactions and financing rounds, (iii) expenses for reorganization  call platforms in the relevant period that lasted 25 seconds or longer 
measures, (iv) expenses for the implementation of information technology,  multiplied by 60%.
(v) expenses for the achievement of capital market capability, and (vi) other  3 “ like for like” excludes the contributions from the german operations and 
non-operating expenses and income, especially the result from disposal of  hungryhouse reported in discontinued operations in 2018 and 2017 and 
tangible and intangible assets, the result from the sale and abandonment of  presents the results from the divested businesses in india and foodora non-
subsidiaries, allowances for other receivables, and non-income taxes. core (australia, france, italy, netherlands) as if the divestments had occurred 
on january 1, 2017.
4 g mv refers to gross merchandise value, which means the total value of  
orders (including vat) transmitted to restaurants. gmv for our click-to-call 
operations (similar to a restaurant-specific business directory where 
customers click on a button that will connect them directly with the 
restaurant via telephone) have been estimated based on the estimated 
number of orders multiplied by the average basket size for the orders placed 
through our korean non-click-to-call online marketplaces during the same 
period.
60
combined management report 
annual report 2018
06. research and development delivery heroʼs research and development activities con- b. economic report
tinue to concentrate on the development and enhance-
our vision of creating an amazing takeaway experience is  ment of local technology and platforms in order to pro- 01. market and industry environment
contingent on constant innovation and technological  vide highly localized solutions combined with an approach 
development in all areas of the customer experience. con- of innovations by a central support function in: a) macroeconomic situation
sequently, innovation and technology is focusing on the  global growth remains robust but has somewhat softened 
enhancement of the value for the platform users by pro- —  data and analytics in the second half of 2018, as manufacturing activity and 
viding more personalized offers, order tracking and visi- —  logistics, including fleet management   trade have shown signs of moderation. the ongoing with-
bility, as well as facilitating discovering of new restaurants  and driver/rider scheduling drawal of monetary policy accommodation in advanced 
as well as dishes and enhancement of payment solutions.  —  marketing, crm and campaign automation  economies has led to some tightening of global financing 
—  restaurant order transmission, driver tracking   conditions5. as a consequence, global economic growth is 
innovation and technology is further aiming to enhance  and pos integration; and expected to not further accelerate but remain flat at 3.7% 
the value of our restaurant partners by improving the fore- —  consumer experience. for 2019 according to latest forecasts of the international 
cast of demand and supply, inventory management and  monetary fund (imf)6.
enabling a faster and better delivery and offering-tailored  in order to provide local solutions but also leveraging from 
marketing solutions. innovation and technology is addi- our global platform we follow a flexible approach with  however, we are seeing a positive gdp development in the 
tionally focussing on the further automatization of oper- strong and agile regional tech teams in all our segments.  majority of our 41 countries of operation7. while the over-
ations, e.g. enhancing processes in customer care, billing  the largest team is situated in berlin. all growth expectation is flat, differences in the outlook 
and rider onboarding. across countries and regions are notable. the imf fore-
in 2018, r&d expenses of the total group (including dis- casts positive real gdp growth for all of delivery heroʼs 
the research and development (r&d) activities of delivery   continued operations) amounted to about € 42.2 million  markets in europe, mena and asia. in the americas seg-
hero are focusing on the challenges providing an excep- (previous year: € 29.0 million). this corresponds to 5.5%  ment, a positive real gdp growth development is expect-
tional takeaway experience today and in the future. these  (previous year: 5.0%) of revenue. development costs of  ed as well for every country of operation except for argen-
challenges include the processing of millions of orders in  € 5.1 million were capitalized (previous year: € 1.8 million),  tina5.
near real-time without glitch, responsible collection of a  this represents 12.1% (previous year: 6.2%) of total devel-
staggering amount of data and coping with w  idely differ- opment costs of the year. amortization of capitalized devel- compared to the gdp growth rates of 2017, saudi arabia, 
ent local requirements across our markets.  opment costs amount to € 3.1 million (previous year:  kuwait and several other emerging markets have returned 
€ 2.6 million). third party research and development ser- to economic growth after slight growth declines in the 
vices are used only to a minor extent. past. on the other side, growth was revised down com-
pared to 2017 for some countries i.e. argentina and  turkey, 
at the end of the financial year, 906 people were  reflecting country-specific factors, inflationary tendencies 
employed in our r&d activities. this represents 3.6% of  and geopolitical tensions5. 
total employees.
5  the world bank group (2018): global outlook june 2018
6  international monetary fund, world economic outlook, october 2018: 
challenges to steady growth
7  excluding foodora own-delivery countries (canada, norway), countries 
without legal entities (panama and paraguay), countries with minority 
participation that are not fully consolidated (e.g. poland) and (planned) 
divestments in foodora non-core assets (australia, france, italy and 
netherlands)
61
combined management report 
annual report 2018
gdp development 2018 europe gdp development 2018 asia since delivery hero has significant operations in countries 
% (2017) % (2017) outside of the eurozone, a substantial portion of its sales, 
earnings and liabilities are denominated in currencies oth-
er than the euro. delivery hero is therefore exposed to 
fluctuations in the values of these currencies relative to 
austria 2.8 (2.3) bangladesh 7.3 (7.1) the euro. in the financial year 2018 delivery hero noted 
bosnia and herzegovina 3.2 (2.5) brunei 2.3 (–1.3) volatility and devaluation of some currencies such as the 
bulgaria 3.6 (3.6) hong kong 3.8 (3.5) turkish lira and the argentinian peso. 
croatia 2.8 (2.9) malaysia 4.7 (5.4)
czech republic 3.1 (3.5) pakistan 5.8 (5.3) furthermore, since q3 2018, americas revenue and gmv 
finland 2.6 (2.8) phiilipines 6.5 (6.6) as well as their respective growth rates were impacted by 
greece 2.0 (1.8) south korea 2.8 (3.0) the argentinian operation qualifying as a hyperinflation-
hungary 4.0 (3.2) singapore 2.9 (2.5) ary  economy under ias 29 beginning september 1, 2018 
montenegro 3.7 (3.0) taiwan 2.7 (2.0) (refer to section b. 14. b) of the consolidated financial 
norway 2.1 (1.4) thailand 4.6 (3.7) statements). no other country of operation has been qual-
ified as hyperinflationary to date.8 
romania 4.0 (5.5)
serbia 4.0 (3.0)
regarding foreign exchange rates, the euro depreciated 
sweden 2.4 (3.1)
within 2018 against two currencies to which delivery hero 
gdp development 2018 americas has a significant exposure: turkish lira (try) and argen-
% (2017) tinian peso (ars). against the following currencies the euro 
appreciated within 2018: south korean won (krw),  united 
gdp development 2018 mena states dollar (usd), kuwaiti dinar (kwd) and saudi riyal 
% (2017) (sar). please refer to the following calculated movement 
argentina –2.6 (2.5) rates of the euro against these currencies from january to 
canada 2.1 (3.0) december 20189:
chile 4.0 (1.4)
bahrain 3.2 (2.5) colombia 2.8 (1.7) —  krw –4.12% 
jordan 2.3 (2.3) ecuador 1.1 (–0.2) —  try +27.53% 
egypt 5.3 (4.0) panama 4.6 (5.3) —  usd –8.21% 
kuwait 2.3 (–2.1) paraguay 4.4 (3.9) —  kwd –7.01% 
oman 1.9 (0.0) peru 4.1 (2.7) —  sar –8.20%
qatar 2.7 (2.5) uruguay 2.0 (3.5) —  ars +76.18%
saudi arabia 2.2 (0.1)
uae 2.9 (1.3)
source: i nternational monetary fund, world economic outlook, october 2018
turkey 3.5 (5.1) 8 company information: q3 2018 trading update
9  calculated from factset data on annual end of period foreign exchange  
rates per euro (eur)
62
combined management report 
annual report 2018
b) sector development whilst delivery heroʼs first phase of disruption was  initially  total segment revenue increased significantly by 45.6% 
we have a large geographic footprint with operations in  the transition of orders from over the phone to online,  (excluding germany on a like-for-like basis 64.6%), orders 
attractive markets in europe, mena, asia and americas.  own delivery capabilities have then expanded the total  increased by 37.8% (excluding germany on a like-for-like 
according to market studies, the total food market amounts  addressable market opportunity for food delivery by offer- basis 48.8%) and gmv grew by 33.3% (excluding germany 
to € 7.5 trillion10. ing a wider selection and often higher quality of restau- on a like-for-like basis 42.3%) between 2018 and 2017. the 
rants.  target of a significant organic increase in orders, gmv and 
due to the positive outlook for the market for online food  revenues was fully met in 2018. total segment revenue, 
ordering & delivery, we believe that our business model is  by continuously investing in logistics, we are looking for  amounted to € 792.4 million including the german opera-
in a favorable position. the advantages can be attributed  ways to maximize the efficiency of our rider network. this  tions classified as discontinued operations (€ 105.4 million), 
to some mega-trends that will drive additional growth for  has seen the focus expand to targeting non-food delivery  thus exceeded the target of a significant growth of total 
decades to come: to capture a greater share of the consumerʼs wallet. while  segment revenue that was announced in the annual report 
our core business remains the delivery of food, we see  2017 and subsequently specified in the half-yearly report 
—  online & mobile engagement much upside in investing in additional verticals and shared  2018 (between € 760 million and € 780 million) and fur-
—  on-demand & last mile logistics kitchens.12 ther narrowed in q4 2018 (between € 780 million and 
—  lifestyle, urbanization & convenience € 785 million). 
02. business performance
in 2018, we found that the global food industry continues  for 2018 a significant improvement of the negative adjust-
to thrive, evolve and innovate; and that at a faster pace  a) performance ed ebitda and the negative adjusted ebitda margin com-
than originally expected. this assessment is also support- in 2018 revenue of the group increased to € 665.1 million13  pared with 2017 was expected with breakeven on adjust-
ed by current independent studies11. (previous year: € 453.7 million). this increase is mainly  ed ebitda level on a monthly basis by the end of the fourth 
attributable to strong organic growth across all segments,  quarter 2018. 
the higher consumer demand for on-demand type of ser- supplemented by the acquisition of the carriage group in 
vices encouraged us to extend our service offering beyond  june 2017.  as reported in the half-yearly report 2018 delivery hero 
our core business model that is the delivery of food. in  modified the adjusted ebitda target by up to € 80.0 million. 
2018 we took the strategic decisions to move towards a  these were planned to be invested additionally in market-
third-generation delivery company. ing, restaurant coverage as well as in product and technol-
ogy. consequently, considering this modification, the 2018 
negative adjusted ebitda was expected to be noticeable 
higher and the negative adjusted ebitda margin to be on 
the same level as 2017 (negative 17% including germany). 
to reach breakeven on an adjusted ebitda basis in decem-
ber 2018 was no longer expected.
10  euromonitor international; economies and consumers; global food market  11, 12  ubs (2018): “is the kitchen dead?” for respective footnote in part of 
represents consumer expenditure on food and catering, value at fixed 2016  footnote explanations on the bottom of the page.
exchange rates; data as of 2016.    13  first time adoption of ifrs 15: effective january 1, 2018 revenue is 
presented net of discounts. prior period information is not adjusted. 
discounts in 2017 amounted to € 26.5 million that are reflected in customer 
acquisition costs of marketing expenses.
63
combined management report 
annual report 2018
the 2018 negative adjusted ebitda of the segments  c) discontinued operations and divestments consolidated statement of profit or loss  
amounted to € 141.6 million (previous year: negative  on december 20, 2018 the company signed a transaction  and other comprehensive income 
€ 94.2 million14) and was € 47.4 million higher as in the pre- document with takeaway.com n.v. pursuant to which  the 2018 group result developed as follows: 
vious year. the negative adjusted ebitda margin of the  delivery hero sold its german food delivery businesses to 
segments for 2018 is 18%.  takeaway.com. accordingly, the german businesses are  continuing operations
classified as discontinued operations in 2018 and 2017  change
b) acquisitions and investments (refer to section a. 02. and d. 03. e) of the consolidated    adjusted eur 
the largest acquisitions of businesses during this report- financial statements). the transaction was completed on  eur million 2018 2017  million %
ing period consist of deliveras s.a., greece (“deliveras”)  april 1, 2019. for the measurement of segment perfor-  
in january 2018, euro magyarorszag kft. (“pizza hu”) in  mance the german businesses are included in the segment  revenue 665.1 453.7 211.4 46.6
may 2018, and cloud treats romania (“hipmenu”) in july  europe until december 31, 2018. cost of sales –318.0  –173.6 –144.4 83.2
2018, food delivery platforms based in greece, hungary  gross profit 347.2 280.1 67.0 23.9
and romania respectively. in the second half of the year,  on january 31, 2018, delivery hero closed the sale of its 
marketing 
smaller acquisitions in bolivia (“netcomidas”), ecuador   hungryhouse group, uk. the gain resulting from these  expenses –313.9 –258.2 –55.8 21.6
(“megabite”) and uruguay (motwer s.a.) were done. the   discontinued operations contributed € 261.3 million  to the  it expenses –54.3 –41.1 –13.2 32.1
total consideration for the acquisitions was € 26.8 million.  net loss for the full year 2018. 
general adminis-
trative expenses –217.2 –218.3 1.1 –0.5
further, delivery hero acquired minority shares in rappi  during the year the group disposed its subsidiaries in i taly, 
other operating 
inc. delaware (“rappi”) and glovoapp 23 s.l spain  brazil and switzerland. the gain from such disposals  income 10.0 25.0 –14.9 –59.8
(“ glovo”), both on demand delivery service-based compa- amounted to € 8.2 million. the group also closed its oper-
other operating 
nies with investments amounting to total € 138.1 million  ations in france, netherlands and australia during 2018. expenses –9.2 –6.8 –2.5 36.6
($ 163.9 million) for rappi and € 55.2 million (net of cash  impairment 
€ 51.2 million) for glovo. both are included in the consoli- 03. n  et assets, financial position and   losses on trade 
dated statements at-equity. results of operations  receivables and 
contract assets –4.3 –14.6 10.3 –70.8
during the year some more minority investments were  a) financial performance of the group operating 
result –241.7 –233.8 –7.9 3.4
executed, the largest being for € 10.1 million in barogo, a  business activities presented as discontinued operations 
net interest cost 2.8 –17.9 20.7 > 100
logistics company in korea. are not subject to the following discussion of net assets, 
financial positions and result of operations (unless other- other financial 
result 18.8 –74.0 92.8 > 100
wise stated). the comparative information is adjusted 
accordingly (refer to section a. 02. of the consolidated  share of the 
profit or loss of 
financial statements).
associates 
accounted for 
using the euqity 
method –38.6 0.9 –39.5 > 100
14 excluding german operations reclassified to discontinued operations. earnings before 
income taxes –258.8 –324.9 66.1 –20.3
64
combined management report 
annual report 2018
adjusted ebitda of the segments reconciles to earnings  development of revenue group revenue by type1
before income taxes as follows: eur million
group revenue
continuing operations eur million 36.7
other
change 50.7
  eur  37.5
prime pladings
eur million 2018 2017  million % 50.8
  41.7
delivery fees
adjusted ebitda  102.8
2017 453.7
of the segments –141.6 –94.2 –47.4 50.3
337.8
commissions
reclassification  501.8
to discontinued 
2018 665.1 0 100 200 300 400 500
operations 41.4 11.0 30.4 > 100
adjusted ebitda 
2017 revenue continued operations
excluding 
 discontinued  2018 revenue continued operations
operations –100.2 –83.2 –17.0 20.4 the delivery hero group increased its revenue in 2018 to 
1 without consideration of discounts.
consolidation  € 665.1 million (previous year: € 453.7 million). revenue in 
adjusments –12.3 –13.3 1.0 –7.5 2018 includes discounts of € 41.0 million, that are deduct-
items excluded  ed from revenue in accordance with ifrs 15. besides  commissions revenues increased to € 460.8 million  
from segment 
 organic revenue growth due to a strong increase in orders,  (previous year: € 337.8 million) representing 69.3% of  
performance –20.0 – –20.0 > 100
continuing investments primarily in marketing and the  total revenue. 
management 
expansion of the groupʼs own delivery services as well as 
adjustments –44.1 –32.8 –11.3 34.3
the newly acquired businesses in 2017 and 2018 contribut- development of adjusted ebitda
expenses for 
ed to this increase. 
share-based 
compensation –17.2 –69.5 52.3 –75.2 adjusted ebitda of the segments
other reconcili- eur million
ation items –0.2 9.4 –9.6 > 100
amortization 
and depreciation –47.7 –44.3 –3.5 7.8 –11.0 –83.2
–94.2 2017
net interest and 
other financial 
result –17.1 –91.1 74.0 –81.3 –41.4 –100.2
–141.6 2018
earnings before 
income taxes –258.8 –324.8 66.0 –20.3
adjusted ebitda without discontinued operations
discontinued operations
65
combined management report 
annual report 2018
cost of sales marketing expenses general administrative expenses amounted to € 217.2 million 
eur million eur million in 2018 (previous year: € 218.3 million). although in 2018 
expenses for share-based compensation decreased to 
€ 17.2 million (previous year: € 69.5 million), this was com-
  pensated by personnel related general administrative 
  expenses that increased to € 96.8 million (previous year: 
–173.6 2017   –258.2 2017 € 62.3 million). this is primarily due to acquisition related 
  earn-out arragements of € 30.1 million (previous year: 
  € 15.7 million) and the general growth of the administrative 
–318.0 2018  –319.9 2018 functions post ipo. 
 
other operating income of € 10.0 million (previous year: 
€ 25.0 million) include primarily gains from the disposal of 
delivery expenses (€ 258.3 million, previous year:  marketing expenses increased by € 55.8 million year-on- subsidiaries. the decrease was due to the one-time dispos-
€ 125.7 million) represent 81.2% (previous year: 72.9%) of  year to € 313.9 million. they mainly include expenses for  al gains of € 20.3 million for the divestment of foodpanda 
cost of sales in 2018 (€ 318.0 million, previous year:  customer acquisition of € 148.6 million (previous year:  india in december 2017. 
€ 173.6 million) resulting in a disproportional increase of  € 135.5 million) and expenses relating to restaurant acqui-
cost of sales (83.2%) to the increase of revenue year-on- sition of € 91.7 million (previous year: € 62.5 million). this  the other operating expenses amounted to € 9.2 million in 
year. this development is due to the expansion of the deliv- increase reflects the increased competition in certain mar- 2018 (previous year: € 6.8 million). the increase was 
ery business in 2018, especially in mena and the americas.  kets as well as the continuous roll-out of our delivery oper-  primarily the result from the wind ups and liquidations of 
delivery expenses comprise own delivery personnel  ations. subsidiaries in 2018.
expenses (€ 95.7 million, previous year: € 48.8 million) and 
external riders and other operating delivery expenses  it expenses increased by € 13.2 million to € 54.3 million.  the decrease in impairment losses on trade receivables and 
(€ 162.6 million, previous year: € 76.9 million). in addition,  they mainly comprise personnel expenses. most of our it  contract assets to € 4.3 million (2017: € 14.6 million)  resulted 
fees for payment services increased by € 9.6 million due  expenses are invested in research and development of our  mainly from one-off effects in 2017.
to a higher online payment share. local platforms and central support functions to enhance 
the value for our partner restaurants and to further improve 
gross profit margin in 2018 was 52.2% (previous year:  the customer experience (2018: about € 36.2 million; previ-
61.7%). the decline is mainly attributed to the continuous  ous year: about € 29.0 million).
roll-out of own delivery services in 2018. further the appli-
cation of ifrs 15, effective january 1, 2018, resulted in the 
deduction of vouchers provided to orders from gross rev-
enue and decreased gross profit margin. eliminating the 
effect from first time adoption of ifrs 15 the 2018 gross 
profit margin would be 56.4%.
66
combined management report 
annual report 2018
development of adjusted ebitda of the segments  segment revenue 2017 the performance of our segments is summarized based 
in 2018 the negative adjusted ebitda of the segments  eur m  illion on the main kpis below:
excluding discontinued operations deteriorated to nega- change
tive € 100.2 million (previous year: negative € 83.2 million).    eur 
the increase of the negative adjusted ebitda is mainly a  47.4 eur m  illion 2018 2017  million %
result of the additional investments in own delivery ser-  
americas
vices, reflected in a disproportional increase in cost of sales,  europe 221.3 198.8 22.5 11.3
as well as marketing and it.  mena  316.4 153.3 163.1 > 100
144.8 198.8
asia 192.5 144.8 47.8 33.0
asia europe
b) business development by segment
americas  62.1 47.4 14.8 31.2
the key financial performance indicators for managing the 
segment revenue  792.4 544.2 248.2 45.6
group on segment level are revenue and adjusted ebitda. 
153.3 reclassification 
while revenue is indicative of the groupʼs ability to grow 
to discontinued 
mena
and to provide attractive service offerings to its custom- operations 105.4 90.0 15.4 17.1
ers, adjusted ebitda indicates the groups ability to become 
segment revenue 
profitable. excluding 
 discontinued 
operations 687.0 454.2 232.8 51.2
segment revenue 2018 until december 31, 2018 revenue, adjusted ebitda, order 
eur m  illion and gmv from german businesses classified as discontin- reconciliation 
effects 19.21 –0.5 19.6 > 100
ued operations is included in the segment presentation. 
discount –41.0 0.o2 n.a n.a
62.1 from the measurement of the 2018 segment performance  group revenue 665.1 453.7 211.4 46.6
americas excluded are operations of foodora australia, france, italy  1  reconciliation effects include gross revenue (before voucher deduction) 
and netherlands, that were abandoned or sold during the  of operations abandoned or sold during the reporting period wich are 
not in the scope of ifrs 5. in 2018 these divestments include australia, 
192.5 221.3 reporting period but were not classified as discontinued  france, italy and netherlands.
asia europe operations in accordance with ifrs 5. comparative infor- 2  first time adoption of ifrs 15 effective january 1, 2018. group revenue  
is presented net of discounts. 2017 information is not adjusted. discounts 
mation is not restated. in 2017 amounted to € 26.5 million that are reflected in customer 
 acquisition costs of marketing expenses. management accounts  underlying 
the segment revenue presented gross before discounts.
316.4
mena
67
combined management report 
annual report 2018
change consolidation adjustments substantially relate to the   number of orders
eur   elimination of transactions with discontinued operations. change
eur million 2018 2017 million % million 2018 2017  million %
  items excluded from segment performance in 2018 relate   
europe –56.8 –45.5 –11.3 24.8 to operations divested during the reporting period of  europe 92.6 73.3 19.3 26.3
mena  18.1 23.9 –5.8 –24.2 € 20.0 million (previous year: nil).  mena 190.6 123.1 67.5 54.8
asia –51.9 –47.1 –4.8 10.2 asia 82.6 67.6 15.0 22.2
management adjustments relate to costs for services relat-
americas –50.9 –25.4 –25.5 > 100 americas 36.0 27.5 8.5 30.9
ing to business transactions and financing rounds of 
adjusted ebitda of  total 401.8 291.5 110.3 37.8
€ 40.1 million (previous year: € 22.3 million), costs for reor-
the segments –141.6 –94.2 –47.3 50.2
ganization measures of € 3.9 million (previous year: 
reclassification  
€ 5.1 million), costs for the implementation of information 
to discontinued 
operations 41.4 11.0 30.3 > 100 technologies of € 0.1 million (previous year: € 0.5 million)  gmv
and expenses for the realization of capital market  viability  change
adjusted ebitda 
excluding  of € 0.0 million (previous year: € 5.0 million). eur 
 discontinued  eur million 2018 2017  million %
 operations –100.2 –83.2 –17.0 20.5
other reconciliation items include non-operating income   
consolidation  and expenses. in 2018, this item included in particular gains  europe 1,377.1 1,160.5 216.6 18.7
adjusments –12.3 –13.3 1.0 –7.5
from the disposal of subsidiaries of € 4.4 million (previous  mena 2,099.9 1,369.9 730.1 53.3
items excluded   year: € 19.5 million), impairment of other assets and other  asia 1,213.7 924.4 289.3 31.3
from segment  
receivables of € 0.5 million (previous year: € 0.5 million) 
performance –20.0 – –20.0 > 100 americas 406.3 369.5 36.8 10.0
as well as non-income-tax of € 5.5 million (previous year: 
management  total 5,097.0 3,824.3 1,272.8 33.3
€ 6.2 million).
adjustments –44.1 –32.8 –11.3 34.3
expenses for  
share-based 
 compensation –17.2 –69.5 52.3 –75.2 europe
other  the revenue of the europe segment increased to 
 reconciliation  € 221.3 million (plus 11.3%) and the number of orders grew 
items –0.2 9.4 –9.6 > 100
to 92.6 million (plus 26.3%). eliminating the effect from the 
amortization and  german businesses classified as discontinued operations 
depreciation –47.7 –44.3 –3.5 7.8
as well as the discontinued foodora businesses in france, 
net interest   italy and netherlands (like-for-like), revenue increased by 
and other  
29.6% to € 115.9 million (previous year lfl: € 89.5 million) 
financial result –17.1 –91.1 74.0 –81.3
and orders grew by 41.4% to 60.3 million (previous year 
earnings before 
lfl: 42.6 million).
income taxes –258.8 –324.8 66.0 –20.3
68
combined management report 
annual report 2018
the negative adjusted ebitda increased by € 11.3 million  driven by strong growth in korea and singapore markets.  course and efficiently consign excess funds in banks. finan-
to negative € 56.8 million. the adjusted ebitda margin has  segment revenue increase is also driven by higher  cial management is based on 36 months cash forecast for 
increased from negative 22.9% in 2017 to negative 25.7%  non-commission revenue streams, predominantly delivery  the group and a detailed monthly liquidity plan for the 
in 2018. eliminating the effect from the german business- fees. operating entities of the group. cash inflow from dispos-
es classified as discontinued operations as well as the dis- al of assets and capital increases are administrated by 
continued foodora businesses in france, italy and nether- the negative adjusted ebitda increased by 10.2% to neg- delivery hero se. they will be allocated to subsidiaries and 
lands, the negative adjusted ebitda improved on a  ative € 51.9 million (previous year: negative € 47.1 million).  provided for strategic measures as needed. during the 
like-for-like basis from € 3.8 million in 2017 to € 3.0 million.  the adjusted ebitda margin in 2018 was 27% (previous  reporting period, the group was able to meet its payment 
year: negative 33%). on like-for-like basis the negative  obligations at any time.
mena  adjusted ebitda increased from € 28.4 million in 2017 to 
in 2018, the mena segment continued to grow strongly in  negative € 51.9 million in 2018. the increase in adjusted  the financial position of the group is shown on the basis 
revenue (106.4%) to € 316.4 million (previous year:  ebitda in 2018 resulted in particular from investments in  of the following condensed statement of cash flows:
€ 153.3 million) and in orders to 190.6 million (previous  own delivery services and marketing.
year: 123.1 million). the carriage group acquired in june  eur million 2018 2017
2017, significantly contributed to these increases. the  americas  
appreciation of the euro against turkish lira softened the  in 2018, revenue in the americas segment increased by  cash and cash equivalents  
as of jan. 11 640.9 230.9
increase in segment reve nue. 31.2% to € 62.1 million (previous year: € 47.4 million) and 
the number of orders grew by 30.9% to 36.0 million (pre- cash flows from  
operating activities –164.6 –209.7
the adjusted ebitda in our mena segment decreased from  vious year: 27.5 million). besides the growth in commission 
cash flows from  
€ 23.9 million in 2017 to € 18.1 million in 2018. the adjust- revenue, revenue from premium placements and revenues 
investing activities –37.1 –117.5
ed ebitda margin decreased from 15.5% in 2017 to 5.8% in  for delivery fees also increased in comparison with the 
cash flows from  
2018, which resulted from the further roll-out of own  previous period.
financing activities 10.6 748.8
 delivery services as well as further investments in sales and 
effect of exchange rate  
marketing. the carriage group, acquired in june 2017,  adjusted ebitda increased by 100.4% to negative 
movements on cash  
which provides own delivery services also affected the neg- € 50.9 million in 2018 (previous year: negative € 25.4 million)  and cash equivalents –10.1 –10.5
ative development of the adjusted ebitda margin in the  and consequently the negative adjusted ebitda margin 
net change in  
mena segment. increased from negative 53.6% to negative 81.9% in 2018,  cash and cash equivalents –191.1 420.6
representing particularly the ongoing investment in own 
cash and cash equivalents  
asia  delivery service and customer acquisition activities.  as of dec. 311 439.8 640.9
during the year 2018, asia segment has developed posi-
1  cash included in a disposal group classified as held for sale  
tively with an increase in segment revenue by 33.0% to  c) financial position december 31, 2018: € 75.7 million (december 31, 2017: € 13.6 million).
€ 192.5 million. orders grew in line by 22.2% to 82.6 million.  the delivery hero group treasury function manages the 
eliminating the effect from the disposal of our indian and  liquidity requirements for delivery hero se and its consoli-
australian operations (like-for-like) revenue increased by  dated subsidiaries. the primary goal of financial manage-
51.2% to € 192.5 million and orders grew by 49.9% to  ment is the timely provision of liquidity to the groupʼs sub-
82.6 million. positive revenue and order development are  sidiaries, meeting the groupʼs payment obligation in due 
69
combined management report 
annual report 2018
cash flow from operating activities (continued and discon- as of december 31, 2018 cash and cash equivalents include 
tinued operations) was still negative at € 164.6 million, due  the cash balances for discontinued op-erations of 
to many group entities not yet reaching break-even and  € 75.7 million (previous year: € 13.6 million).
the emphasis on growth throughout 2018.
cash and cash equivalents were not subject to any signif-
the improved operating cash flow in 2018 is mainly due to  icant restrictions as of the reporting date.
an improvement in working capital as a result of higher 
online-payment share and an enhanced collection man- d) net assets
agement. the groupʼs balance sheet is structured as follows:
cash flows from investing activities (continued and discon- eur million dec. 31, 2018 % dec. 31, 2017 % change
tinued operations) amounted to negative € 37.1 million. it   
includes the cash inflows from divestment of hungryhouse  non-current assets 1,129.2 56.3 1,283.6 62.7 –154.4
(€ 238.5 million). cash outflows mainly included payment  current assets 875.8 43.7 764.6 37.3 111.2
for the acquisition of shares of deliveras s.a, euró mag- total assets 2,005.0 100.0 2,048.2 100.0 –43.2
yarország kft., cloud treats romania and motwer s.a 
(together € 26.8 million (net of cash € 18.7 million)),  minority 
invest-ments in rappi inc. (€ 138.1 million), g  lovoapp23 s.l.  eur million dec. 31, 2018 % dec. 31, 2017 % change
(€ 51.2 million), as well as investments in intangible assets   
(€ 19.7 million) and property, plant and equipment  equity 1,615.0 80.6 1,720.8 84.0 –105.8
(€ 29.6 million). non-current liabilities 62.6 3.1 105.2 5.1 –42.6
current liabilities 327.4 16.3 222.2 10.8 105.2
cash flows from financing activities (continued and dis-
total liabilities and equity  2,005.0 100.0 2,048.2 100.0 –43.2
continued operations) of € 10.6 million (previous year: 
€ 748.8 million) resulted in particular from capital increas-
es in connection with the exercise of equity settled stock 
options during the year 2018. in the year 2017 financing  the groupʼs total assets remained on a constant level as of 
activities were substantially affected by naspers funding  december 31, 2018 compared to the previous year. the 
round, ipo proceeds as well as repayment of shareholder  movement from non-current assets to current assets is 
loans. mainly attributable to the reclassification of the assets for 
the german operating businesses (€ 276.9 million) to cur-
rent assets held for sale. the increase in current assets was 
partially offset by the decrease of cash and cash equiva-
lents (€ 151.0 million).
70
combined management report 
annual report 2018
structure of statement of financial position  structure of statement of financial position  e) overall assessment
(in % of total assets)  (in % of liabilities and equity) the management board assesses the financial position, 
financial performance and earnings situation as positive. 
assets included in a disposal group 1 liabilities included in a disposal 1 total segment revenue of € 792.4 million exceeded expec-
classified as held for sale 18 group classified as held for sale 4
tations in 2018.
other assets 3 14 equity 8184
trade and other receivables 44 andpe ontshioenr  pprroovviissiioonnss 11 at the expense of the adjusted ebitda target for 2018, 
delivery hero announced in q3 2018 an investment pro-
31 7
cash and cash equivalents 18 trade and other payables 9 gram targeted to support continuing growths in future 
intangible and tangible assets 46 61 other liabilities 67 yinegalrys  tahned a sdtjruesntgetdh eebni mtdaark meta lregaidne trasrhgiept p foosr i2ti0o1n8s w. aacsc loorwd--
0 20 40 60 0 20 40 60 80 ered towards the level of 2017 (negative 17%) and the goal 
of a significant improvement of adjusted ebitda was 
dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2018 abandoned. with an adjusted ebitda margin of negative 
18% of the segments 2018 ended close to the prior year 
non-current assets remain the largest portion of the bal- in 2018 equity is primarily reduced by foreign currency  level and in line with the adjusted target for 2018. the 
ance sheet with 56.3% as of december 31, 2018 (previous  translation losses of € 87.3 million (previous year:  negative adjusted ebitda of the segments in 2018 was 
year: 62.7%). they mainly comprise intangible assets of  € 98.8 million) mainly attributable to the appreciation of  € 141.6 million (previous year: negative € 94.2 million).
€ 878.0 million (previous year: € 1,222.6 million), thereof  euro against the turkish lira.
goodwill € 570.4 million (previous year: € 713.5 million),  04. employees
trademarks € 187.7 million (previous year: € 367.7 million)  as of the reporting date, non-current liabilities mainly 
and customer base € 86.2 million (previous year:  include deferred tax liabilities of € 41.8 million (previous  the average number of employees within our continued 
€ 126.0 million). goodwill of € 17.7 million resulted mainly  year: € 81.7 million), recognized upon acquisition account- operations increased from 9,072 in 2017 to 16,627 in 2018. 
from the acquisition of the deliveras s.a., pizza hu and  ing of previous business combinations.  this change occurred primarily in the areas of delivery and 
hipmenu in 2018. the decrease in intangible assets  sales, mainly a result of the expansion of own rider per-
(€ 344.6 million) resulted primarily from the reclassifica- the increase in current liabilities is primarily due to the  sonnel. as of december 31, 2018, delivery hero employed 
tion of the brand and trademarks as well as goodwill from  growth of our businesses as well as a higher online-pay- 20,608 staff (previous year: 10,633).
the german operating businesses to assets held for sale. ment share and the related increase in restaurant liabili-
ties that increased by about € 30.1 million year-on-year.
the significant increase in current assets in 2018 is mainly 
due to the reclassification of non-current assets of the ger-
man operating businesses to assets held for sale which are 
classified as current.
71
combined management report 
annual report 2018
c. risk and opportunity report —  conscious acceptance of economically viable risks is  b) risk strategy
an essential part of any business activity. the main goal of delivery heroʼs risk strategy is not neces-
01. risk policy principles and risk strategy  —  the goal of erm is not to avoid risks but to ensure risk  sarily to avoid all present and future risks, but to assess 
transparency through a systematic erm process. there- risk with regards to costs and benefits and to preserve risk 
the constant monitoring, assessment and weighing of  by, risks can be accepted if they are known, assessed,  transparency. as we are engaged in an innovative and 
known and emerging risks is a fundamental principle of  managed and monitored. further, in consideration of  emerging business with relatively high inherent risks that 
delivery hero and the responsibility of the groupʼs risk man- cost-benefit aspects, an accepted risk should correlate  rewards with a potentially high return, we are more w  illing 
agement. the aim of risk management is to develop a strat- with a potential higher return and added value for the  to accept risks and even seeking certain risks to achieve 
egy and to set objectives which ensure an optimal balance  group. our goals within the defined and pursued strategy (risk 
between the growth of business on the one hand and the  —  erm is an integral part of delivery heroʼs business pro- appetite).
mitigating associated risks on the other hand, thereby sys- cesses and relates to all business activities within the 
tematically and sustainably foster the groupʼs shareholder  group. materiality thresholds
value. —  the management board, the global and local erm func- risk-related materiality thresholds are derived from our 
tions and local management teams are responsible for  risk appetite. based on the continuing growth focus of the 
a risk is considered as a threat of an event, action or non-  enhancing risk culture and risk awareness. delivery   group, the key metric used as reference for the definition 
action occurring that could adversely affect delivery heroʼs  hero stands for a strong tone from the top with regards  of the materiality thresholds is revenue. 
ability to achieve its business objectives or implement its  to erm and all other governance, risk and compliance 
strategy. when identifying risks, both negative impacts and  matters (grc) in general. accordingly, over the past  delivery hero distinguishes between two types of materi-
lost opportunities are considered equally. years group management strengthened the grc and  ality thresholds:
internal audit function by adding relevant expertise, 
the groupʼs formalized risk management system (rms)  embedding local risk management policies in subsid- —   reporting thresholds for the identification and assess-
focusses solely on managing risks, whereas the considera- iaries supported by central subject matter experts. ment of risks. if exceeded, the risks have to be included 
tion of opportunities is not part of this formalized system.  —  the erm ensures a uniform risk understanding through- in the groupʼs enterprise risk assessment and our regu-
possible opportunities arising in business activities are  out the group by setting definitions, rules and proce- lar reporting process. the reporting threshold, consid-
described in section c. 06. opportunity report.  dures and by documenting them in the erm m  anual. ered to have an insignificant financial impact, is defined 
—  the effectiveness of the rules and procedures is partic- as follows: group revenue x 1% x 0.5 (€ 3.3 million).
a) risk policy principles ularly contingent on local management teams’ and local 
our enterprise risk management (“erm”) is based on the  erm functions’ commitment to the risk policy princi-
following principles: ples. the rules and procedure are subject to further 
development based on the identified risks and the treat-
ment of risks. furthermore, every employee  within the 
group has the responsibility to proactively  participate 
in and support erm.
—  erm enables risk awareness in business decisions.
72
combined management report 
annual report 2018
—  materiality limits/escalation criteria for ad-hoc report- 02. g  roup-wide risk management system (rms) it consists of the pillars risk identification, risk assessment, 
ing: if exceeded during the monitoring phase, risks have  risk treatment, risk monitoring and risk reporting. this 
to be immediately reported to the risk manager, the  the key objectives of delivery heroʼs rms are to manage  includes the risk management process and its instruments 
management board or the supervisory board, depend- and streamline the group-wide risk management process,  as well as all underlying principles and guidelines. the rms 
ing on the risk level (low, medium, high). the material- to control all risk management related activities and to  is closely aligned with the determination of the groupʼs 
ity limit/escalation criteria for ad-hoc reporting, corre- ensure a comprehensive view on all significant risks of the  strategy and its business objectives, including safeguard-
sponding to a medium financial impact, is defined as  group. the rms identifies, assesses, treats, monitors and  ing of the groupʼs assets and the value chain. the rms deals 
follows: group revenue x 2.5% (> € 16.6 million).  reports risks. with all significant risks, not only with risks that could jeop-
—  local entities apply the same formulas with local rev- ardize the existence of the group.
enue input for determining risks to be reported to grc.  delivery heroʼs rms considers the key elements in accor-
dance with section 315 (2), no. 1a hgb and the internation- a) risk identification
ally recognized coso framework of the committee of  risks are identified by all employees of delivery hero, by our 
sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. nominated risk owners throughout the different depart-
ments and by local and global risk managers. this happens 
through data analyses, process reviews, interviews and 
 actual events.
b) risk assessment
after identification, the risk owners, supported by local 
risk managers, assess their individual risks based on the 
evaluation criteria described below. those criteria are 
applicable to all subsidiaries of delivery hero to ensure 
identification identification  monitoring  
risks are identified and listed through data research,  all identified risks and the related response strategies  
 interviews, review of processes and follow up incidents. are closely and regularly monitored. key risk indicators are 
reporting
the main tools used for monitoring.
assessment  
risk   assessment identified risks are assessed according to their likelihood   reporting 
management   and impacts which is determining the risk rating. monitored risks are periodically reported to management
cycle
treatment  
assessed risks are treated according to one of the selected  
monitoring
risk responses: avoid, reduce/mitigate, transfer or accept.
  treatment
73
combined management report 
annual report 2018
that all risks are assessed uniformly in order to ensure com- identified risks in the red area of the matrix require imme- the impact scale ranges from insignificant (score of one) 
parability. diate action from management with high priority or need  to critical (score of five):
to be monitored closely. risks of the amber area are cate-
risks are assessed with respect to two dimensions: gorized as medium risks which require mid-term action  i.   insignificant: the risk does not affect the daily 
and/or regular monitoring. risks in the green area are not   performance/insignificant financial losses/no injuries
—   impact is the extent to which the risk, if realized,  excluded from actions but have a lower priority.
would affect delivery hero and its objectives.  ii.  low: minimal impairment of daily business/first aid 
—   likelihood is defined as the probability of a risk  for assessing the potential impact of a risk, different per- for injuries required/situation immediately under 
occurring over a predefined period. spectives are considered. risks can be evaluated either  control/ low financial losses
from a quantitative (financial) perspective and/or from 
the combination of likelihood of occurrence and impact  qualitative perspectives such as business objectives, brand  iii.  medium: medium interruptions of daily business/
results in the risk assessment.  image, operations, health, legal and environment. medical care needed in case of injuries/medium 
financial losses/damage is limited by external 
 assistance
iv. h  igh: temporary loss of business functionality and 
risk matrix and financial impact scale of delivery hero  capacity, major violation/damage to reputation, but 
without long-term and subsequent effects or large 
likelihood financial losses
(1 – 20%) (>  40 – 60%) (> 40 – 60%) (> 60 – 80%) (> 80%) v.  critical: massive financial losses/bankruptcies/death, 
reputational damage or damage of the relationship 
critical  
(€ > 66.5 million) medium  medium high  high  high  with the stakeholders.
the financial impact is usually the primary scale for  
high  
(€ 33.3 – 66.5 million) medium medium medium high  high  the impact assessment.
impact medium 
(€ 16.6 – 33.3 million) low  medium  medium  medium high 
low 
(€ 3.3 – 16.6 million) low  low  medium  medium  medium 
insignificant 
(€ <3.3 million) low  low  low  medium  medium 
74
combined management report 
annual report 2018
gross versus net risk c) risk treatment i.  r isk avoidance: risk can be avoided by stopping a 
in a first step, we evaluate a risk without considering the  the treatment of risks encompasses actions or strategies  certain activity that is posing the risk.
effect of the risk treatment strategy (see next section) and  to manage identified and assessed risks. one of the five 
the risk mitigation measures (the gross risk). in the second  following options needs to be chosen by the risk owner in  ii.  r isk reduction/mitigation: risk can be reduced by 
step, we then define the remaining net risk, taking into  alignment with management: taking necessary measures.
account the risk treatment as well as the implementation 
of any risk mitigation measures. iii. r isk transfer: the risk can be transferred to a third 
party, insurance, or consulting company.
the chart below presents the differences between gross 
and net risk. iv. r isk acceptance: taking no action can be favored 
considering cost-benefit analysis.
v.  r isk diversification: e.g. spreading risk through 
 serving of multiple markets
differences between gross and net risk 
identified risks
inherent risk (=gross)
risks that exist without consideration of controls   ics
or other management activities 
risk treatment/mitigation measures:
1. responsibilities
2. processes, policies, ics
3. training/communication
4. monitoring/improvement
5. insurance 
actual  plan 
residual risk (=net)
risks that exist with   acceptable residual risk 
consideration of controls   (=target)
or other management activities 
75
combined management report 
annual report 2018
d) risk monitoring 03. s ystem of internal financial   function. based on the assessment of complexity and the 
risk monitoring refers to the continuous follow-up of iden- reporting controls involvement of judgement within the application of 
tified, assessed and treated risks with the respective risk  accounting policies, the accounting for selected complex 
controller and/or local risk and compliance manager with  delivery hero has implemented a detailed system of inter- reporting topics, e.g. business combinations and share-
the purpose of evaluating the latest likelihoods and  nal financial reporting controls. this system aims to  identify,  based compensation arrangements, is centrally adminis-
impacts as well as to monitor and re-evaluate the defined  evaluate and control all risks that could have a significant  tered to comply with the groupʼs reporting requirements. 
actions and the progress of implementation. continuous  impact on the proper preparation of the consolidated finan- risks are further mitigated by the cross functional 
risk monitoring is a collective responsibility between the  cial statements in compliance with the relevant accounting  exchange among central functions, in particular between 
global risk managers, local risk managers, as well as with  standards and applicable laws. as a key component of the  legal, strategy, group accounting and group controlling. 
the respective risk owners. continued risk monitoring is  accounting and reporting process, the system of internal  identified risks are continuously monitored and reassessed. 
carried on a regular basis. financial reporting controls comprises preventive, monitor- based on this assessment and in accordance with require-
ing and investigative control measures in accounting and  ments of the respective international financial reporting 
e) risk reporting operational functions which ensure a methodical and con- standards, the risks are reflected and disclosed in the 
we have established the following reporting structure for  sistent process for preparing the financial statements. the  groupʼs consolidated financial statements. the system of 
the key risks identified: control system is based on the various group processes that  internal controls is subject to regular reviews by the grc 
have a significant impact on financial reporting. department and/or risk-based assessments performed by 
i.  q  uarterly risk & compliance committee meeting  internal audit.
these processes and the relevant risk for the financial 
ii.  r egular updates to the audit committee  reporting are analyzed and documented. a control matrix  04. internal audit system
contains all controls, including a description of the con-
iii. on-demand updates to the supervisory board trol, type of control, frequency with which it is carried out.  internal audit within delivery hero se is an independent 
we have implemented standardized monthly reporting  function that reports functionally to the audit committee 
iv. a  d-hoc updates for critical risks to the management  and review procedures for subsidiary financial statements.  of the supervisory board and administratively to the cfo. 
board and/or supervisory board. these are subject to a multi-level monthly review process  internal audit adheres to the principles of the institute of 
on regional and group level to ensure consistency and cor- internal auditors (iia) code of ethics: integrity, objectivity, 
rectness across the group. our global accounting manual  confidentiality, and competency. on an annual basis, inter-
provides detailed accounting instructions for all key com- nal audit prepares an internal audit plan taking into con-
ponents of the financial statements to the groupʼs finance  sideration risks identified by the risk management system, 
teams. the identification of risks for the consolidated finan- the internal control system, and the compliance system. 
cial statements further involves the observations of the  this risk-based audit plan is approved by the audit com-
groupʼs internal audit function, the results of statutory  mittee of the supervisory board. 
audits and the risk assessment of the group accounting 
76
combined management report 
annual report 2018
05. risk report as of december 31, 2018 our success depends crucially on our ability to maintain  as we operate in many countries, including emerging and 
our strong position in the markets we are active. if we are  developing markets, we are subject to economic, political 
in 2018 the group was exposed to several risks. although  unable to protect leading market positions, our service  and legal risks in these countries. unexpected regulatory- 
most risks were considered known, the risk assessment has  may be exposed to pricing pressure and sales decline. we  or capital market- requirements as well as changes in appli-
changed for some of them. in particular, the remarkable  operate in a competitive environment and our business  cable laws may require delivery hero to flexibly adapt pro-
currency fluctuations in some of our major markets, with  model is vulnerable to short-term changes. our customers  cesses in its markets. furthermore, turbulences in the 
argentinean peso meeting the criteria for being considered  could be persuaded to use the platforms of competitors  financial markets, the economic and institutional stability 
hyperinflationary in the third quarter 2018 and the substan- who may operate businesses with complementary service  of the eurozone, an expansive monetary policy of large 
tial devaluation of the turkish lira throughout 2018, changed  offerings and different pricing models. new delivery plat- central banks worldwide and an unresolved debt problem 
the risk exposure from transactions in these currencies.  forms that cover a wide variety of product categories such  in numerous industrial and developing countries result in 
competitive pressure in some of our markets required addi- as groceries could affect the market shares of the players  considerable risks for our business. the risk of economic, 
tional investments in order to preserve and grow our mar- in the food delivery industry. political, legal and financial risks is considered medium. 
ket position. further, the strong growth of the delivery hero 
group raised organization risks that required mitigation  the industry environment continues to be highly compet- generally, a non-growing economy in one of our operat-
measures, including fraud prevention.  itive and the competitors tend to be more aggressive. as  ing markets could cause a reduction of online food order-
of today, delivery hero is subject to competitive pressure  ing as purchasing power may decrease. a static economy 
individual risks are generally assessed for existence for a  in various countries, from other aggregators as well as  is one of the factors increasing the counterparty risk, as 
twelve-month period from the reporting date. key risks of  own delivery models and large chains and brands. large  receivables from our restaurant partners could be harder 
each risk area are described below. these risks are appli- global players (e.g. amazon, ubereeats), as well as new  to collect. increasing unemployment rates may impact our 
cable to all our segments (unless explicit reference to indi- well-funded market entrants (e.g. grab) continue entering  order volume growth, since online food delivery is more 
vidual segments is made) and based on the gross risk assess- the food delivery space and restaurant chains continue to  popular among people who spend more time at their work-
ment. the actions taken as described below are – unless  invest in direct sales channels, both over the phone and  place than at home and have less time to cook. the risk of 
otherwise stated – considered adequate to mitigate the  online. delivery hero is focusing on increasing its restau- static economies among the group is low.
respective risks. rant base and on the enhancement of end customer loyal-
ty, by strongly investing in a seamless customer experi- to identify such strategic risks in a timely manner, we pro-
a) strategic risks ence. the risk of increasing competitive pressure is  mote local entrepreneurship to enable our local manage-
the online food delivery market is continuing to grow very  considered high. ment teams (who know their markets best) to react quick-
fast, supported by the internet penetration and use of  ly to individual market changes. in addition, we promote 
smartphones worldwide.  technological changes and disruptive technologies may  the strategical and technological cooperation between 
affect our current business model, if we are not able to  local and central team to leverage from our global orga-
keep up with technological developments. new genera- nization. these actions do not mitigate the risk. if needed 
tions of consumers and restaurants might expect different  mitigating actions are established based on the individu-
technological applications and solutions. the risk is con- al facts and circumstances identified. 
sidered high.
77
combined management report 
annual report 2018
b) operational risks systems and regular stress tests. moreover, an incident  tionships on a global scale and the use of the internet and 
as an online company, delivery hero operates websites,  management process enables a systematic search for the  mobile devices in everyday life becomes more prevalent, 
platforms, payment solutions and other data processing  causes of any malfunctions. due to the importance of data  new laws and regulations relating to the internet and the 
systems, which we use to collect, maintain, transmit and  to our business, we assess the risk of data security issues  e-commerce sector in particular may be adopted. these 
store information about our partner restaurants, custom- and system malfunctions as high.  laws and regulations may affect many aspects of our busi-
ers and suppliers. they all rely on the security of our sys- ness such as the collection, use and protection of data from 
tems and that their data are handled properly and are not  we are continuously increasing the number of deliveries  website visitors and related privacy issues, online payment 
misused. any breaches would result in material reputation- and expanding our logistics business in several regions.  services, pricing, anti-bribery, tax, commission rates 
al damage. therefore, we use our best efforts to maintain  this may be combined with a larger volume of cash that is  charged to our partner restaurants, content, copyrights, 
and continuously improve our data security measures. how- collected and transferred, bearing the risk of theft, incon- trademarks, origin, distribution and quality of goods and 
ever, cyberattacks in particular remain the biggest inher- sistencies in cash reconciliations and administrative effort.  services. 
ent risk of our business model. as the nature and charac- to mitigate this risk, several control mechanisms are estab-
teristics of cyber-attacks are constantly evolving, the risk  lished that secure the cash-payment procedure. at the same  delivery hero is in many countries of its europe segment 
that new security gaps can only be closed with a time lag  time, we are strongly promoting online payment options  subject to the eu payment services directive ii which cov-
exists. to our business partners and customers. the risk is consid- ers online-based payment services and provides a uniform 
ered as medium.  regulation of payments via the internet and mobile phones. 
delivery hero is also subject to several business continuity  it increases customer protection and the requirements for 
risks. as an internet-based company, we are strongly depen- country specific and economic requirements, including  user authentication. in particular, the payment services 
dent on the functionality, security and stability of our web- employment legislation and social security, increase the  directive ii prevents european companies without a bank-
sites and online order platforms. as online food delivery is  complexity of the rider management as part of the own  ing or payment services license to collect and hold bank 
preferred mainly because of its convenience, even short  delivery services. the constant analysis of regulatory devel- account payments resulting from online transactions on 
system downtimes can lead to high financial losses, includ- opments is needed to find the best approach in advancing  behalf of others (e.g. restaurants in delivery heroʼs busi-
ing reputational damages to our brands. the risk is consid- the logistics business. non-compliance with regulatory  ness model). this forces us to either outsource the provi-
ered high. requirements may lead to higher rider costs and possible  sion of payment services to third parties, to discontinue 
non-compliance fines. this also includes the risk of unavail- our online payment services, or to apply for a banking or 
to avoid harm to our systems, we are continuously evalu- ability of rider personnel restraining the further expansion  payment services license. an evaluation and modification 
ating, improving and implementing processes that reflects  of the logistic services. this risk is considered as medium. of relevant processes is done under consideration of exter-
best practice, which include comprehensive internal con- nal advice. the adoption or modification of such regula-
trols and employee it expertise. before implementation,  c) compliance risks tions could adversely affect our business by increasing 
proprietary software is subject to a quality assurance pro- government regulations and legal uncertainties may place  compliance costs, including noncompliance fines and 
cess. methods used to protect against external attacks  administrative and financial burdens on our business. as  administrative burdens. the risk from payment service reg-
include the use of external service providers, redundant  the internet continues to revolutionize commercial rela- ulations is considered as high.
78
combined management report 
annual report 2018
privacy-related regulation of the internet could interfere  or intolerances, the net quantity of the food and the use  liquidity risk
with our strategy to collect and use personal information  by date. compliance with these regulations by our partner  liquidity risk is the potential inability to meet the groupʼs 
as part of our marketing efforts and operations. with the  restaurants requires the awareness of the ingredients and  financial obligations due to the lack of financial resourc-
general data protection regulation (regulation 2016/679/ allergen content of their dishes. we are dependent on the  es. liquidity risks may arise in the form of limited access 
eu of the european parliament and council of april 27,  accuracy of the relevant information being furnished to  to financing opportunities as a result of the general mar-
2016, the “general data protection regulation”), which  our marketplaces by our partner restaurants. in order to  ket situation, rising refinancing costs including the risk of 
came into force on may 25, 2018, data controllers have  support our partner restaurants, we worked on several  the dh group credit rating being downgraded. the expo-
more obligations when it comes to handling personal data.  process improvements and trainings, including consulta- sure to the liquidity risk is closely monitored on group lev-
due to different interpretation possibilities of the general  tion of nutrition experts. food labeling requirements are  el using daily liquidity reports and regular cash forecast 
data protection regulation (gdpr) with regard to market- inherent to our service offering and therefore rated as  reports to ensure adequate distribution of funds and ear-
ing activities as well as the use of new and innovative tech- high. ly identification of additional funding needs. in 2018 fund-
nologies or processes, the risk exists that regulatory  ing of operations was secured by cash received in compa-
authorities and judicature may represent an interpretation  d) financial risks ny sales (e.g. hungryhouse), excess cash from prior yearʼs 
of the legislative language that deviates from our under- as an internationally operating group we are exposed to  public share offering and additional funding received in 
standing. regarding gdpr, we have reviewed our data pro- various financial risks. the risks comprise liquidity risks,  the context of capital increases. in 2019 dh entered into a 
cessing activities critically, particularly for compliance with  default risks and financial market risks.  revolving credit facility of € 125 million to further secure 
principles of data processing and adjusted security mea- the liquidity of the group. furthermore, we encountered 
sures as defined by art. 25 and art. 32 gdpr. additionally,  risk management in relation to the use of financial  transactions subsequent to december 31, 2018 that posi-
the group has established specific processes to ensure  instruments tively affected the liquidity of the group (refer to section i. 
compliance with reporting requirements with respect to  the objective of our financial risk management is to limit  subsequent events of the consolidated financial state-
data protection law. the non-compliance with applicable  these risks arising from business activities and to generally  ments). the liquidity risk is assessed as medium.
regulations can result to fines and other sanctions. the  avoid transactions outside the operating business activities 
risk is considered as high. that may expose the group to additional financial risks.  financial market risk
accordingly, such risks are monitored within our risk man- since our operations are conducted in many different cur-
restaurants in our european segment are subject to numer- agement system and managed by the groups treasury func- rencies, we are exposed to risks from changes in foreign 
ous food labeling regulations, such as the eu regulation  tion. financial risk management addresses the risk by select- currency exchange rates. driven by our geographic foot-
on the provision of food information to consumers, and  ing appropriate means, including limitation of external  print and investing activities outside the european mon-
the german ordinance on food additives approval  financing in order to minimize interest rate risks, matching  etary union, such risks are caused by fluctuations or deval-
(“zusatzstoff-zulassungsverordnung”). our online market- when possible foreign currency denominated cash inflows  uations of currencies as well as foreign exchange controls 
places in the european union are subject to those regula- and outflows within the group to mitigate the foreign cur- or governmental measures that impact our ability to con-
tions. among others the regulations provide for labeling  rency exposure as well as performance of aging analyses  vert currencies and repatriate dividends, if any. currency 
requirements with regard to the name of the food, the list  and enforcement of higher share of online payment to  exchange risks and movements in foreign exchange rates 
of ingredients, particularly those known to cause allergies  reduce the default risk. between the euro and the currencies of the local markets 
79
combined management report 
annual report 2018
may materially impact the results of our operations due to    dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017 share. overall the default risk is classified as low risk con-
translation effects. the groupʼs entities are exposed to cur- changes in     sidering the high degree of diversification
eur million +10% –10% +10% –10%
rency risk in particular with regard to intercompany loan 
obligations denominated in foreign currencies and inter- usd-eur –23.0 23.0 0.2 –0.2 06. opportunity report
company receivables and payables. adverse translation  eur-krw 9.7 –9.7 7.7 –7.7
effects are caused by the translation of financial results of  eur-try –4.5 4.5 –2.8 2.8 the opportunity report deals with the business opportu-
our consolidated subsidiaries prepared in their respective  nities for delivery hero, which can materialize during the 
kwd-sar 4.5 –4.5 0.9 –0.9
functional currencies into euro, our reporting currency, in  year following the reporting date.
kwd-aed 3.9 –3.9 0.1 –0.1
the course of preparing the groupʼs consolidated financial 
sar-bhd –3.5 3.5 0.0 0.0
statements. the foreign currency exposure includes,  macroeconomic development
among others, the turkish lira, the argentinian peso, the  eur-sgd 3.4 –3.4 0.4 –0.4 every person that owns a phone is a potential customer, 
korean won, the us dollar, saudi-riyal and kuwaiti dina,  eur-kwd 2.7 –2.7 0.1 –0.1 regardless of whether orders are made online or offline. 
volatility of foreign exchange rates and depreciations of  eur-twd 1.5 –1.5 0.0 0.0 we believe that growth opportunities in our markets will 
currencies against the euro are especially noted for turk- be driven by several fundamental tailwinds, including 
bhd-aed 1.3 –1.3 0.0 0.0
ish lira and argentinian peso. beginning with the third  increasing online and mobile customer engagement and 
qar-kwd 1.2 –1.2 0.0 0.0
quarter of 2018 it was concluded that argentinaʼs econo- last-mile logistics capabilities, as well as shifts in custom-
eur-myr 1.1 –1.1 0.0 0.0
my is highly inflationary. from thereon argentina is report- er behavior due to changes in life-style, urbanization and 
ed as a hyperinflationary economy under ias 29 (refer to  eur-pkr 1.0 –1.0 0.5 –0.5 convenience. this trend is particularly driven by a gener-
section b. 14. of the consolidated financial statements).  eur-php 1.0 –1.0 0.7 –0.7 ation of millennials that heavily relies on smartphones for 
no other country has been qualified as hyperinflationary  eur-gbp 0.0 0.0 3.2 –3.2 everyday transactions, overall convenience and represents 
to date. we are closely monitoring foreign currency deval- the growing on-demand culture. additionally, technology 
uations and are reassessing the associated financial risks.  evolves and fundamentally changes consumption habits. 
material mitigating actions were not actively taken. cur- since the group currently does not have significant inter-
rency risks are considered medium. est-bearing liabilities, the group is currently not exposed  other market developments
to risks arising from interest rate fluctuation. not only did the number of our customers grow, this past 
the following table shows the effects on profit or loss that  year has also seen a high increase in order frequency per 
would result if the foreign currencies had appreciated   default risk person. we expect this trend to continue in the upcoming 
or depreciated by 10% as of the reporting date. the default risk is the risk that business partners, primar- years and predict a large growth rate of order frequency. 
ily restaurants, do not meet their payment obligations, 
which may result in a loss for the group. this risk mainly  as more consumers generate more orders, the market-
involves current trade receivables from offline payments.  place becomes more attractive to restaurants, and being 
delivery hero is not exposed to a significant default risk  listed in the marketplace becomes an operational neces-
from a single customer. the default risk is generally spread  sity at some point. 
widely over multiple restaurant partners. besides an active 
account receivable management, the group is mitigating  we envision growth opportunities by focusing on and 
the default risk by aiming for a higher online payment  investing in markets where we are leading players and 
80
combined management report 
annual report 2018
markets where we see a potential to become market lead- enhancing the customer experience by providing services  d. subsequent events and outlook
ers with a reasonable investment level. delivery hero oper- tailored to individual preferences may further increase the 
ates in more than 41 countries, which provides us with a  user exposure to our websites. this may enable us to gen- 01. subsequent events
substantially larger growth opportunity in comparison  erate complementary revenue from marketing services as 
with our peers, lower operational and financial risks, and  well as cross-listing of other services and products. we  on february 28, 2019 delivery hero group announced that 
a better opportunity in terms of the significant investments  believe that the ongoing development of personalized  it entered into an agreement with zomato media pvt. ltd. 
in technology. offerings will have a significant impact on customer reten- (“zomato”) to buy its food delivery business in the united 
tion.  arab emirates (uae) through its fully owned subsidiary tal-
logistics abat middle east internet services company llc (“ talabat”). 
innovation in delivery, including demand forecasting mod- technology the agreement encompasses the acquisition of restaurant 
els, fleet management and route optimization will enable  the group continues to integrate global application solu- contracts as well as the conclusion of a service and license 
us to cost optimize our own delivery business. as a result  tions into local platforms and aim standardization. we are  agreement. the consideration for the acquisition amounts 
of the investments we made in our logistics services, our  convinced that this approach will further simplify our com- to $ 172.0 million. besides this consideration a contingent 
deliveries have continuously increased. we expect that the  plex it landscape and reduce maintenance. this will also  payment depending on the future performance of the busi-
near future will see a steady rise in the use of our delivery  have a positive effect on it development expenses. in addi- ness was agreed. the maximum contingent payment 
services by restaurants worldwide.  tion, by advancing the automatization of operations we  amounts to $ 44.0 million.
expect to improve pace and service quality in areas like 
our mature logistics infrastructure and management enable  customer care, billing and rider onboarding in the   the acquisition will add approx. 1.2 million monthly orders 
us to deliver other on-demand products, expanding our  near term. and approx. $ 2 million monthly revenue to delivery heroʼs 
market to the non-food sector (e.g. groceries or flowers) in  mena business and will strengthen its leadership position 
the future. finally, alternative delivery options, including  personnel opportunities  in the uae. the acquisition was fully funded by an acquisi-
automated guided vehicles and drones, may complement  delivery hero has a wealth of talented professionals world- tion facility. on april 1, 2019 the facility was fully repaid.
the delivery options and increase the coverage of our ser- wide which enables us to grow at speed whilst maintaining 
vices. best practices. we are able to dedicate our best resources  moreover, delivery hero participated in zomatoʼs latest 
to challenges we may face in any country.  funding round by investing $ 50.0 million into zomatoʼs 
personalization and customer experience global business to become a top 10 shareholder and also 
hyper personalization of services and recommendation of  our people operations department supports the business  entered into a material operational partnership agreement.
menu options enhance the end-customer experience.  in core operations, people partnering, talent development, 
based on data collection and analysis we aim to identify  employee engagement, employee experience and talent  on april 1, 2019 the sale of delivery heroʼs german food 
usersʼ meal preferences before they know them themselves.  acquisition. this ensures we are able to retain those talent- delivery operations to takeaway.com was concluded. the 
such an aspect of convenience may provide further growth  ed professionals we work alongside, attract new talent and  total consideration delivery hero has received amounts to 
potential.  further grow our reputation and business.  (i) approx. 5.7 million ordinary shares in takeaway.com, (ii) 
approx. 3.8 million warrants convertible into ordinary 
shares of takeaway.com at zero cost and (iii) approx. 
€ 508 million of cash. the total consideration (subject to 
customary price adjustments) at time of closing amounts 
81
combined management report 
annual report 2018
to € 1.15 billion. the total consideration is net of cash, i.e.  02. outlook —  online & mobile engagement,
delivery hero keeps the net cash position of its german 
food delivery operations. post exercise of the warrants,  i. macroeconomic and industry outlook —  on demand & last mile logistics,
the share component represents approx. 15.5% of the total 
issued and outstanding share capital of takeaway.com. as  in october 2018, the imf issued in its world economic out- —  life-style, urbanization & convenience17. 
of december 31, 2018 the german operations are classified  look a global economic growth prognosis of 3.7% for 2019, 
as disposal group classified as held for sale (refer to sec- a moderate decline by 0.2 percentage points compared to  this assessment is also supported by current independent 
tion d. 03. e). prior growth expectations. in some economies, growth  studies. 
may have reached its peak. for developed economies, such 
as a result of the transaction, the mandate of semih  yalcin,  as the euro area, projections have been revised down,  delivery hero is well positioned to benefit from these 
employee representative in delivery heroʼs supervisory  reflecting a softer market in early 2018. emerging market  favorable trends and developments due to its global foot-
board ended. his successor is christian graf von harden- growth prospects are negatively impacted by a higher yield  print, the leading market position in key markets and its 
berg, chief technology officer of delivery hero. environment as well as escalating trade tensions. howev- broad customer base.
er, the outlook for some oil exporting countries in mena 
on april 4, 2019 the company has decided to enter into a  has strengthened. main risk factors for global growth are  ii. company expectations
multi-year equity collar agreement in relation to 3.2 million  increasing trade tensions and political uncertainties which 
of its shares in takeaway.com, which it received in connec- could result in tighter financial market conditions, cause  in 2018, on total segment level delivery hero has achieved 
tion with the sale of its german food delivery to takeaway. disruptive portfolio adjustments or sharp exchange rate  an order, gmv and revenue growth of 37.8%, 33.3% and 
com. movements.15  45.6%, respectively. excluding germany on like-for-like 
basis the order-, gmv- and revenue-growth was 48.8%, 
the objective of the collar transaction is to provide pro- the highly fragmental global food service market contin- 42.3% and 64.6% respectively. for 2019, the company has 
tection on approximately one third of the shares  ues to provide further growth opportunities16. delivery   set up a comprehensive investment program, covering mar-
delivery hero received in takeaway.com. the equity collar  heroʼs total addressable market (tam) is estimated to be  keting, restaurant coverage, technology and product capa-
will also allow delivery hero to participate in part of any  greater than previously indicated € 70 bn for food delivery  bilities, which we believe will enable us to significantly 
further share price appreciation of this portion of the take- only. this is expected to continue expanding into the larg- increase orders and gmv compared to 2018. 
away.com shareholding. delivery hero has elected for cash  er than € 500 billion food services market opportunity. the 
settlement of the collar over time by default. expansion is mainly driven by structural trends such as: 
to facilitate the transaction, morgan stanley will sell up to 
3 million of such shares in takeaway.com through an accel-
erated bookbuild offering. the cash raised from the place-
ment will be released to delivery hero to allow for 
increased strategic flexibility for opportunistic m&a trans-
actions. delivery hero has committed to a 90-day lock-up 
with respect to additional takeaway.com shares following 
the pricing of the offering. 15 weo from october 2018, imf 17 kbb review (2018): http://www.kbbreview.com/news/is-the-kitchen-dead-
16 euromonitor, independent consumer foodservice new-report/
82
combined management report 
annual report 2018
the investment program will positively affect the 2019 rev- e. other disclosures 04. nonfinancial report 
enue growths but also contribute to incremental revenues 
in the years starting 2020. for 2019 delivery hero expects  01. t akeover-related information pursuant to  the combined separate nonfinancial report of delivery  
to achieve total segment revenues between € 1,080 million  sections 289a (1) and 315a (1) of the german  hero se and the group prepared in accordance with sec-
and € 1,150 million. the measures under the investment  commercial code (hgb) tions 315b, c and 289b to e of the german commercial code 
program will affect the groupʼs adjusted ebitda in 2019.  (hgb) is included in the annual report 2018 in section 
accordingly, we expect the 2019 adjusted ebitda of the  takeover related information pursuant to sections 289a (1)  “nonfinancial report” and is published on the website of 
segments between negative € 270 million and negative  and 315a (1) of the german commercial code (hgb) pre- delivery hero se (https://ir. deliveryhero.com).
€ 320 million. for the mena segment, we anticipate gen- sented in section corporate governance report – take-
erating € 70 million of adjusted ebitda in 2019. during the  over-related disclosures and explanatory notes by the man- 05. treasury shares
second half of 2019 we expect the europe segment to  agement board of the 2018 annual report are incorporated 
breakeven on an adjusted ebitda basis.  by reference into this combined management report. for information of the treasury shares held as of the report-
ing date in accordance with section 160 (1) no. 2 of the ger-
due to the comparatively short history of the group and  02. c ompensation report pursuant to   man stock corporation act (aktg) we refer to section iii. 
the fact that delivery hero is operating in a relatively new  sections 289a (2) and 315a (2) of the   notes to the individual balance sheet items – equity of the 
market, any forecast on the earnings trend is subject to  german commercial code (hgb) notes to the 2018 financial statements of delivery hero se 
considerable uncertainty. besides factors that can be  published on the website of delivery hero se (https://ir. 
impacted by delivery hero, adjusted ebitda is also contin- the compensation report pursuant to sections 289a (2)  deliveryhero.com).
gent on factors that cannot be influenced. for example, if  and 315a (2) of the german commercial code (hgb) pre-
the group were forced to defend its position against new  sented in section corporate governance report – compen-
competitors in specific markets or to react to revenue  sation report of the 2018 annual report is incorporated by 
downturns, then measures which may not have been  reference into this combined management report.
scheduled previously may have to be implemented (e.g. 
increasing marketing expenditure) which can negatively  03. corporate governance code
affect adjusted ebitda and trigger considerable deviations 
from the estimated results. the management and supervisory boards of delivery  
hero se have issued a statement of conformity pursuant 
the assumptions on the economic development of the mar- to the german corporate governance code (section 161 of 
ket and the industry are based on assessments which the  the german stock corporation act (aktg)), which was pub-
management of the delivery hero group considers realis- lished on the website of delivery hero ag in december 
tic in line with currently available information. however,  2018 (https://ir.deliveryhero.com).
these estimates are subject to uncertainty and bring with 
them the unavoidable risk that the forecasts do not occur, 
either in terms of direction or in relation to extent. the 
forecast for the forecast period is based on the composi-
tion of the group at the time the financial statements were 
prepared.
83
combined management report 
annual report 2018
f.  supplementary management report   with the merger agreements dated march 8, 2018 and the  02. n  et assets, financial positions and result 
to the separate financial statements   approvals of the same day, the wholly-owned subsidiaries  of operations of the company
of delivery hero se 9cookies gmbh, ssc volo gmbh and foodora holding 
gmbh were merged with delivery hero se.18 the acquisi- a) results of operations
the management report of delivery hero se and the group  tion of the assets took effect on january 1, 2018. the acquir- the results of operations of delivery hero se are shown 
management report have been combined. the annual  ing legal entity, delivery hero se, has continued the car- below in a summarized income statement:
financial statements of delivery hero se were prepared in  rying amounts of the merged legal entities. the merger 
accordance with the german commercial code (handels- was registered with the company on april 25, 2018 in the  change
gesetzbuch) (“hgb”). commercial register berlin charlottenburg.  
eur million 2018 2017 absolute %
01. business model due to the merger, the amounts in the balance sheet as at   
december 31, 2018 are not comparable with those at  revenue 55.6 35.8 19.8 55.6
delivery hero se (the “company”), a european stock cor- december 31, 2017 and in the 2018 income statement not  other operating 
income 281.9 34.5 247.4 > 100
poration, is the parent company of the delivery hero group  comparable with the previous yearʼs amounts. 
(also dh, dh group, delivery hero or group) with its reg- other own  
work capitalized 1.5 0.6 0.9 > 100
istered office at oranienburger straße 70, 10117 berlin, ger- with registration in the commercial register on july 13, 
many. 2018, the conversion of delivery hero ag into delivery   material 
expenses –5.9 –0.2 –5.7 > 100
hero se, a european stock corporation, became effective.
delivery hero se is the holding company of the groupʼs  personnel 
expenses –79.0 –101.4 22.4 –22.1
subsidiaries that operate online food ordering and deliv- delivery hero se is represented by its management board, 
other operating 
ery marketplaces businesses under the brand delivery hero  which also determines the corporate strategy of the group. 
expenses –168.7 –88.9 –79.8 89.8
as well as certain regional brands. its operating activities  in its capacity as a group holding company, delivery hero se 
depreciation, 
include the administration of participation in other com- maintains central functions including group controlling, 
amortization 
panies as well as the provision of general administrative-,  group accounting, investor relations, risk management,  and impairments –110.7 –74.1 –36.6 49.4
marketing- and it related services and financing to these  internal audit, corporate taxes, mergers and acquisitions, 
net interest 
direct and indirect participations. treasury and human resources. result 16.9 –3.5 20.4 >100
income from 
investments 3.3 7.3 –4.0 –54.2
earnings before 
taxes (ebt) –5.0 –190.0 185.0 97.4
taxes –2.0 –0.6 –1.4 > 100
net loss –7.0 –190.6 183.6 –96.3
18 ssc volo gmbh merged with foodora holding gmbh.
84
combined management report 
annual report 2018
the increase in revenue in 2018 was mainly attributable to  of € 3.1 million, higher expenses for it and licenses of  net loss includes expenses for research and development 
higher services recharges to group subsidiaries. € 13.8 million (previous year: € 4.7 million) as well as high- activities in 2018 of € 19.3 million (previous year: € 6.2 million). 
er expenses for marketing of € 18.3 million (previous year:  furthermore, development costs of € 2.1 million were capi-
in 2018 other operating income increased by € 247.4 million  € 2.7 million). the increase is partially offset by reduced  talized in 2018 (previous year: € 0.6 million).
as compared to the previous year. the increase mainly  expenses from foreign currency losses of € 4.6 million (pre-
resulted from the sale of the hungryhouse group which  vious year: € 13.4 million) and for consulting services of  delivery hero se expects a significant improvement in net 
contributed € 204.9 million to other operating income. in  € 19.9 million (previous year: € 46.3 million).  result for 2019 due to expected higher other operating 
addition, other operating income contains of € 38.1 million  income from the sale of the german business.
recharged cost incurred on behalf of group subsidiaries  depreciation, amortization and impairments includes 
(previous year: € 12.5 million) as well as € 12.9 million real- amortization of intangible assets of € 3.1 million (previous  b) financial position
ized and unrealized foreign currency gains (previous year:  year: € 1.4 million), depreciation of property, plant and  the following condensed cash flow statement (indirect 
€ 6.6 million).  equipment of € 2.0 million (previous year: € 0.9 million),  method) shows the companyʼs financial position:
impairment of interests in affiliated companies of 
the € 5.7 million increase in material expenses compared  € 28.7 million (pre-vious year: € 46.6 million) and impair-   
eur million 2018 2017
to the previous year resulted mainly from the purchase of  ment on loans of € 58.4 million (previous year: € 24.7 million) 
restaurant merchandise and equipment, which was pur- and on trade receivables in the amount of € 18.6 million   
cash and cash equivalents  
chased as part of shared service center functions for the  (previous year: € 0.7 million).
at the beginning of the 
group subsidiaries. these were purchased in the previous  financial year 403.0 0.8
year by ssc volo gmbh. ssc volo gmbh has been merged  mainly impairment of shares in affiliated companies, loans 
cash flows from  
with delivery hero se in 2018. to affiliated companies and receivables from affiliated com- operating activities –38.1 –157.5
panies in 2018 related to the following companies: inver-
cash flows from  
personnel expenses decreased by € 22.4 million as com- siones cmr s.a.s., food delivery holding 15 s.à r.l., foo- investing activities –261.7 –209.9
pared to the previous year. the decrease by € 54.2 million  dora finland oy, foodora ab, volo netherlands b.v.  cash flows from  
resulted mainly from less expenditures for share-based  foodo-ra france sas and ranila online services private  financing activities 5.6 770.5
compensation, which increased in 2017 due to the number  ltd. in 2017 impairments related to 9cookies gmbh, inver- net change in cash  
of awards granted following the acquisition of minorities  siones cmr s.a.s., food delivery holding 15 s.à r.l., foo- and cash equivalents –294.2 403.1
(roll-over) preceding the ipo as well as valuation effects.  dora australia pty ltd. and restaurant partner polska  effect of movements in 
offsetting this effect, an increase in the number of employ- sp.z.o.o. exchange rates on cash  
and cash equivalents 2.6 –0.9
ees resulted in a € 35.5 million increase in personnel 
expenses, also driven by the merger of ssc volo gmbh. income from the sale of the hungryhouse group contrib- cash and cash equivalents  
at the end of the financial 
uted significantly to the improvement in the annual result 
year 111.4 403.0
other operating expenses increased by € 79.8 million to  in 2018. increased personnel expenses relating to employ-
€ 168.7 million in 2018, consisting pri-marily of losses result- ee salaries and operating losses in connection with the 
ing from the mergers of ssc volo gmbh and foodora hold- mergers of the companies ssc volo gmbh and foodora 
ing gmbh of € 65.8 million, loss from disposal of ds x x xvi  holding gmbh had a compensatory effect.
italy s.r.l. of € 8.8 million, liquidation of ceraon b.v. 
85
combined management report 
annual report 2018
the negative cash flow from operating activities mainly  c) net assets
resulted from usual business payments, for example per- net assets are illustrated by means of a condensed balance 
sonnel expenses and consultancy expenses, which are only  sheet:
partially passed on to the companies in the group as a 
result of the group-wide cost allocation concept. dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017
   
the cash flow from investing activities mainly includes pay- eur million share (%) eur million share (%) change (%)
ments for investments (mainly in rappi inc. and glovoapp23   
s.l.) and payments for long-term loans to subsidiaries total- assets
ing € 498.6 million. cash inflows of € 238.5 million resulted  non-current assets 2,421.4 91.42 2,034.4 78.46 19.0
from the sale of the hungryhouse group. current assets 222.8 8.41 555.8 21.44 –59.9
prepaid expenses 4.4 0.17 2.6 0.10 66.7
the positive cash flows from financing activities resulted 
total assets 2,648.6 100.00 2,592.9 100.00 2.2
mainly from cash receipts resulting from capital increases 
 
in connection with the exercise of equity settled stock 
liabilities
options.
equity 2,563.3 96.78 2,511.4 96.86 2.1
provisions 22.0 0.83 11.8 0.46 86.4
as of december 31, 2018, the company had unused credit 
lines from third parties amounting to € 0.0 million (previ- liabilities 62.2 2.35 67.1 2.59 –7.4
ous year: € 75.0 million). on january 29, 2019, a new credit  deferred income 1.1 0.04 1.3 0.05 –10.3
line of € 125.0 million was granted. deferred tax liabilities 0.0 0.00 1.3 0.05 > 100
total equity and liabilities 2,648.6 100.00 2,592.9 100.00 2.2
86
combined management report 
annual report 2018
the total assets of delivery hero se increased by 2.2% in  the increase in provisions in 2018 by € 10.2 million result- during the year 2018, the company further strengthened 
2018. this increase resulted primarily from inflow of funds  ed from provisions for not received invoices (€ 15.1 million,  its headquarter functions by merging with ssc volo gmbh. 
from the companyʼs capital increases. this increase results  previous year: € 5.6 million).  the central service offerings were extended, providing 
primarily from inflow of funds from the capital increases  more services to the subsidiaries to facilitate the sharing 
used by the company in the context of its financing activ- the liabilities as of december 31, 2018 (€ 62.2 million) relate  of technological advantages in many markets to pursue 
ities with its affiliated companies. mainly to fixed interest-bearing loan made to delivery hero  new business opportunities. in 2019, the company foresees 
group companies of € 54.2 million (previous year:  to continue to grow the central team to further consolidate 
non-current assets as of december 31, 2018 primarily con- € 53.0 million), thereof € 34.5 million denominated in usd  the groupʼs platform landscape.
sisted of shares in affiliated companies (€ 1,686.3 million,  (previous year: € 41.0 million). the decline in liabilities com-
previous year: € 1,605.3 million), investments (€ 206.2 million,  pared to the previous year is attributable to payments 
previous year: € 9.0 million) and loans to affiliated compa- received of € 7.0 million as part of the sales agreement of 
nies (€ 500.4 million: previous year: € 410.0 million). the hungryhouse group and has been reported in the bal- berlin, april 23, 2019
ance sheet.
current assets as of december 31, 2018 consisted primarily 
of cash and cash equivalents of € 111.4 million, (previous year:  d) overall assessment
€ 403.0 million) as well as receivables and other assets in the  the management assessed the companyʼs net assets, finan-
amount of € 106.2 million (previous year: € 152.7 million). cial position and results of operations as positive due to 
the improvement of the financial positions, capital contri-
equity as of december 31, 2018 increased to € 2,563.3 million  butions and the increased volume of services provided to 
(previous year: € 2,511.4 million) mainly resulting from cap- group subsidiaries. although the company continued to 
ital increases from share-based compensation as well as  incur losses, these were within the forecasted range. niklas östberg  emmanuel thomassin
the contribution in kind of non-controlling interests of  chief executive officer  chief financial officer
€ 59.0 million. on the contrary, equity decreased by 
€ 7.0 million from the net loss of the period. the equity 
ratio was 96.8% and has changed only slightly compared 
to the previous year (previous year: 96.9%).
87
consolidated financial statements 
consolidated  
consolidated statement of financial position page 89
consolidated statement of profit or loss  
and other comprehensive income page 90
financial   consolidated statement of changes in equity page 91
consolidated statement of cash flows page 93
statements
notes to the consolidated f inancial statements page 94
a. general information page 94
b. accounting policies page 94
c.  changes in accounting policies and  
new standards and interpretations  
that have not yet been applied page 104
d. scope of consolidation page 107
e. operating segments page 113
f.  disclosures on the consolidated  statement  
of financial position page 115
g.  disclosures on the consolidated  statement  
of comprehensive income page 129
h. other disclosures page 134
 i. subsequent events page 153
responsibility statement page 154
independent auditor's report page 155
try out our interactive table of contents.  
you will be directed to the selected page.
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
consolidated statement of financial position
assets equity and liabilities
eur million note dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017 eur million note dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017
   
non-current assets equity
intangible assets f. 01. 878.0 1,222.6 f. 09. a) 
share capital/subscribed capital and b) 185.9 182.5
property, plant and equipment f. 02. 38.8 23.4
capital reserves f. 09. c) 2,688.2 2,661.3
other financial assets f. 03. 49.8 31.4
retained earnings and other reserves f. 09. d) –1,256.7 –1,124.5
other assets f. 05. 0.3 0.3
treasury shares f. 09. e) –0.1 0.0
investments accounted for using  
the equity method d. 03. c) 162.3 5.9 equity attributable to shareholders  
of the parent company 1,617.4 1,719.3
1,129.2 1,283.6
non-controlling interests –2.3 1.5
 
current assets   1,615.0 1,720.8
inventories f. 07. 3.1 2.4  
non-current liabilities
trade and other receivables f. 04. 85.1 88.8
pension provisions f. 10. 2.7 1.9
other assets f. 05. 54.5 17.6
other provisions f. 11. 6.2 3.6
income tax receivables f. 14. 2.2 0.4
trade and other payables f. 12. 8.6 2.8
cash and cash equivalents f. 08. 364.1 627.3
other liabilities f. 13. 3.2 15.2
assets included in a disposal group classified  
as held for sale d. 03. e)  366.8 28.1 deferred tax liabilities f. 06. 41.8 81.7
875.8 764.6     62.5 105.2
total assets 2,005.0 2,048.2  
current liabilities  
other provisions f. 11. 4.9 21.2
trade and other payables f. 12. 172.0 135.1
other liabilities f. 13. 68.4 41.9
income tax liabilities f. 14. 7.3 10.1
liabilities included in a disposal group  
classified as held for sale d. 03. e) 74.8 13.9
327.4 222.2
total equity and liabilities 2,005.0 2,048.2
89
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
consolidated statement of profit or loss  
and other comprehensive income
adjusted  adjusted 
eur million note 2018 20171 eur million note 2018 20171
   
continuing operations other comprehensive income (net)
revenue g. 01. 665.1 453.7 items not reclassified to profit or loss:
cost of sales g. 02. –318.0 –173.6 remeasurement of net liability (asset) arising  
on defined benefit pension plans f. 09. e) –0.4 –0.3
gross profit 347.2 280.1
items reclassified to profit or loss in the future:
marketing expenses g. 03. –313.9 –258.2
effect of movements in exchange rates f. 09. e) –93.0 –98.5
it expenses g. 04. –54.3 –41.1
other comprehensive income –93.4 –98.8
general administrative expenses g. 05. –217.2 –218.3
total comprehensive income for the period –135.6 –446.9
other operating income g. 06. 10.0 25.0
net loss for the period attributable to:
other operating expenses g. 07. –9.2 –6.8
shareholders of the parent –38.2 –345.1
impairment losses on trade receivables and  
contract assets g. 07. –4.3 –14.6 non-controlling interests –4.0 –2.9
operating result –241.7 –233.8 total comprehensive income attributable to:
net interest cost g. 08. 2.8 –17.9 shareholders of the parent –131.6 –443.0
other financial result g. 09. 18.8 –74.0 non-controlling interests –4.0 –3.9
share of the profit or loss of associates  diluted and basic earnings per share  
accounted for using the euqity method d. 03. e) –38.6 0.9 from continuing operations in eur –1.47 –2.09
earnings before income taxes –258.8 –324.9 diluted and basic earnings per share  
from continued and discontinued operations  
 
in eur –0.21 –2.19
income taxes g. 10. –18.3 –7.5
net loss for the period from   1 adjusted refer to section a.02 and d.03.e).
continuing operations –277.1 –332.4
net income for the period from  
discontinued operations 234.8 –15.7
net loss  –42.2 –348.1
90
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
consolidated statement of changes in equity
jan. 1, 2018 – dec. 31, 2018
attributable to the owners of the parent
retained earnings and other reserves
revaluation 
currency  reserve  
subscribed  capital  retained   translation  for pension  treasury   minority  total
eur million capital  reserves  earnings  reserve  commitments shares total  interests equity
 
note f. 09. a) and b) f. 09. c) f. 09. d) f. 09. d) f. 09. d) f. 09. e)    
balance as of jan. 1, 2018 182.5 2,661.3 –932.81 –191.3 –0.5 1,719.3 1.5 1,720.9
net loss – – –38.2 – – – –38.2 –4.0 –42.2
other comprehensive income – – – –93.0 –0.4 – –93.4 – –93.4
total comprehensive income – – –38.2 –93.0 –0.4 – –131.6 –4.0 –135.6
 
transactions with owners – payments received  
and change in non-controlling interests                  
capital increases 3.4 8.12 – – – – 11.5 – 11.5
equity-settled share-based payments – 18.8 – – – – 18.8 – 18.8
acquisition of non-controlling interests  
without change of control – – –0.6 – – – –0.6 0.3 –0.3
other changes to equity – – – – – –0.1 –0.1 – –0.1
transactions with owners 3.4 26.9 –0.6 – – –0.1 29.6 0.3 29.9
balance as of dec. 31, 2018 185.9 2,688.2 –971.5 –284.3 –0.9 –0.1 1,617.4 –2.3 1,615.0
1 adjusted by € 0.1 million for ifrs 9 adoption.
2 includes non-cash adjustment to capital reserve of € –0.7m for previous transaction costs.
91
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
jan. 1, 2017 – dec. 31, 2017
attributable to the owners of the parent
retained earnings and other reserves
revaluation 
currency  reserve   non-  
subscribed  capital    retained   translation  for pension  treasury   controlling  total  
eur million  capital reserves  earnings  reserve  commitments shares total interests equity
 
note f. 09. a) and b) f. 09. c) f. 09. d) f. 09. d) f. 09. d) f. 09. e)  
balance as of jan. 1, 2017 0.5 1,582.8 –587.6 –93.7 –0.2 – 901.8 –9.6 892.2
net loss – – –345.1 – – – –345.1 –2.9 –348.1
other comprehensive income – – – –97.6 –0.3 – –97.8 –1.0 –98.8
total comprehensive income – – –345.1 –97.6 –0.3 – –443.0 –3.9 –446.9
 
transactions with owners – payments received  
and change in non-controlling interests                  
capital increases 182.0 948.0 – – – – 1,130.0 – 1,130.0
equity-settled share-based payments – 113.7 – – – – 113.7 – 113.7
acquisition of non-controlling interests  
without change of control – 16.7 – – – – 16.7 15.1 31.8
transactions with owners 182.0 1,078.4 – – – – 1,260.5 15.1 1,275.6
balance as of dec. 31, 2017 182.5 2,661.3 –932.7 –191.3 –0.5 – 1,719.3 1.5 1,720.9
92
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
consolidated statement of cash flows
   
eur million note 2018 2017 eur million note 2018 2017
  payments (–) for investments  
1. cash flows from operating activities in financial assets   –15.6 2.0
net loss –42.2 –348.1 payments for (–)/proceeds (+) from  
loans to third parties   –1.3 –0.8
income tax (net) 5.4 2.1
net payments (–) for acquisitions b. 02. b) –18.7 –93.6
income tax paid (–) –13.6 –7.9
net proceeds (+) from sale of subidiaries  
amortization, depreciation and write-downs f. 01./f. 02. 57.9 54.7
or discontinued operations d. 03. e) 232.6 –5.4
increase (+)/decrease (–) in provisions f. 10. –11.5 4.4
purchase of equity investments f. 08. –190.6 0.0
non-cash expenses (+)/income (–)  
interest received (+) 4.8 2.0
from share-based payments g. 05. 17.2 71.0
cash flows from investing activities –37.1 –117.5
other non-cash expenses (+) and income (–)   25.5 –24.1
 
gain (–)/loss (+) on disposals of fixed assets   0.5 0.6
3. cash flows from financing activities
gain (–)/loss (+) on deconsolidation d. 03. d) –270.0 –20.0
proceeds (+) from capital contributions f. 09. 12.0 1,128.4
increase (–)/decrease (+) in inventories,  
proceeds (+) from loans and borrowings 0.1 25.0
trade receivables and other assets   –2.7 –51.8
repayments (–) of loans and borrowings –1.3 –393.4
increase (+)/decrease (–) in trade and  
other payables   71.6 41.9 interest paid (–) –0.2 –11.2
interest and similar income (–)/  g. 08./  cash flows from financing activities 10.6 748.8
interest and similar expense (+) g. 09. –2.7 66.5
 
cash flows from operating activities –164.6 –210.6 4.  cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period
  net change in cash and cash equivalents –191.1 420.6
2. cash flows from investing activities
effect of exchange rate movements  
proceeds (+) from the disposal of property,   on cash and cash equivalents –10.1 –10.5
plant and equipment 0.7 1.4
cash and cash equivalents at the  
payments (–) for investments in property,   beginning of the period 1 f. 08. 640.9 230.9
plant and equipment f. 02. –29.6 –16.6
cash and cash equivalents at the  
proceeds (+) from disposal of intangible assets   0.3 0.1 end of period 1 439.8 640.9
payments (–) to acquire intangible assets f. 01. –19.7 –6.5 1  cash included in a disposal group classified as held for sale december 31, 2018: € 75.7 million  
(december 31, 2017: € 13.6 million).
93
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
notes to the consolidated   the consolidated financial statements are prepared in  the consolidated financial statements and the combined 
financial statements euro.  management report are published in the german federal 
gazette (bundesanzeiger).
a. general information this is the first set of consolidated financial statements of 
dh group in which ifrs 15 and ifrs 9 have been applied.  the preparation of consolidated financial statements in 
01. company information changes to significant accounting policies are described  accordance with ifrs requires judgements, estimates and 
the delivery hero group (also: dh, dh group, delivery   in section c. assumptions that affect the application of accounting pol-
hero or group) offers online food ordering services in  icies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, 
more than 40 countries on five continents, africa, asia,  during 2018 the economy in argentina has been consid- income and expense. actual results may differ from these 
europe, north america and south america.  ered to become hyperinflationary. accordingly, the group  estimates. areas involving a higher degree of judgment or 
applied the hyperinflationary accounting requirements of  areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to 
delivery hero se (former delivery hero ag) is the parent  ias 29 – financial reporting in hyperinflationary econo- the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in sec-
company and is domiciled at oranienburger straße 70,  mies to itʼs argentinian operations. as the presentation  tion b. 14.
10117 berlin, germany (the “company”). it is registered with  currency of the consolidated financial statements is that 
the commercial register of the local court, berlin charlot- of a non-hyperinflationary economy, comparative amounts  b. accounting policies
tenburg under hrb 198015 b. the conversion from delivery   are not adjusted for changes in the price level or exchange 
hero ag (hrb 187081 b) into a societas europaea (se)  rates in the current year. the financial statements of the company and of the sub-
became effective with entry in the commercial register on  sidiaries are prepared according to uniform accounting 
july 13, 2018. on december 20, 2018 the company signed a transaction  policies. unless otherwise stated, the group consistently 
document with takeaway.com n.v. (“takeaway.com”) pur- applied the following accounting policies to all periods 
the consolidated financial statements and the combined  suant to which delivery hero sold its german food order  presented in these consolidated financial statements.
management report were authorized for issue by the man- and delivery businesses, including all three brands to take-
agement board on april 23, 2019. away.com (the “transaction”). in accordance with ifrs 5  01. methods of consolidation
the german business is classified as a discontinued oper-
02. b  asis of preparation of the consolidated financial  ation, comparative information in the consolidated state- a) subsidiaries
statements in accordance with ifrs ment of profit or loss and other comprehensive income is  subsidiaries are entities directly or indirectly controlled by 
the consolidated financial statements of dh group have  restated, balance sheet information as of december 31,  the company. the company controls an entity when it is 
been prepared in accordance with the international finan- 2017 remain unadjusted (we refer to section d. 03. e) of  exposed to variable returns from its involvement with the 
cial reporting standards (ifrs) adopted and issued by the  the consolidated financial statements). accordingly the  entity and has the ability to affect those returns through 
international accounting standards board (iasb), as adopt- comparison of the balance sheet information as of decem- its control over the entity. subsidiaries are fully consolidat-
ed by the european union. the preparation of the consol- ber 31, 2018 and 2017 is affected by this presentation. the  ed in the consolidated financial statements of the group. 
idated financial statements occurred under application of  transaction was completed on april 1, 2019. first-time consolidation occurs at the date of obtaining 
the provisions of regulation (ec) no 1606/2002 of the  control. 
european parliament and of the council of july 19, 2002,  unless otherwise stated, all figures have been rounded to 
on the application of international accounting standards  the nearest € million. disclosures on changes are based on 
in conjunction with section 315e (1) of the german com- exact values. in addition, for computational reasons, there 
mercial code [hgb], taking into consideration the supple- may be rounding differences to the exact mathematical 
mentary provisions of german commercial law. values in tables and references.
94
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
the group accounts for business combinations applying  the list of shareholdings in section h. 10. contains a  (until december 31, 2017) are recognized in oci until the 
the acquisition method. in applying the acquisition meth- detailed overview of all the subsidiaries. investment is impaired or derecognized. exchange differ-
od, the consideration transferred and the identifiable net  ences arising on a monetary item that forms part of a 
assets are measured at fair value. a positive difference  b) associates  reporting entityʼs net investment in a foreign operation 
between the consideration transferred and the identifiable  associates are entities in which the group has a significant  are recognized in oci in the consolidated financial 
net asset is capitalized as goodwill. a negative difference  influence; which is presumed in case of a holding of  statements.
is immediately recognized in profit or loss. between 20% and 50% of voting rights or if an ability to 
exercise significant influence can clearly be demonstrated.  for the purposes of inclusion in the consolidated financial 
non-controlling interests constitute the share of profit or  as of the reporting date the group had five (previous year:  statements, the assets and liabilities (including goodwill 
loss and net assets in a subsidiary that is not attributed to  two) associates included at-equity in the consolidated  and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition) of sub-
the parentʼs shareholders and are presented separately.  financial statements. they are listed in the list of share- sidiaries whose functional currency is not euro are trans-
changes in the groupʼs interest in a subsidiary that do not  holdings in section h. 10. lated into euro at the exchange rates at the reporting date. 
result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity  income and expenses are translated into euro at the dates 
transactions.  as in the prior years, the group did not have any joint  of the transactions, approximated by average exchange 
arrangements according to ifrs 11 as of the reporting date. rates.
obligations arising from written put options issued to 
holders of non-controlling interests are accounted for as  02. currency translation for entities operating in a hyperinflationary economic 
financial liabilities, and the related non-controlling inter- the functional currency of the subsidiaries included in the  environment, the inflation effects of the origin country are 
ests are no longer recognized. consolidated financial statements of the group is usually  recognized pursuant to ias 29. results and financial posi-
the respective local currency, unless it is assessed to be  tions of the entities are translated into euro at the 
when the group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecog- different than the local currency due to specific circum- exchange rates at the reporting date. 
nizes the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary and all  stances. the consolidated financial statements are present-
related non-controlling interests and other equity compo- ed in euro (presentation currency). when a foreign operation is disposed of, the cumulative 
nents. any gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. any  amount of foreign exchange reserve related to that foreign 
retained interest in the former subsidiary is recognized at  transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the  operation is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain 
fair value on the date when control was lost. functional currency at the exchange rate on the transac- or loss on disposal.
tion date. monetary assets and liabilities denominated in 
expenses and income, as well as receivables and payables  foreign currencies are translated into the functional cur-
between consolidated entities, are eliminated along with  rency at the exchange rate at each reporting date. foreign 
intragroup profits and losses arising from intragroup  exchange gains and losses are generally recognized in 
transactions. profit or loss. the foreign currency differences arising from 
the translation of available-for-sale equity investments 
95
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
03. recognition of revenue invoices are generated on a weekly, bi-weekly or monthly  04. property, plant and equipment
dh group generates revenue mainly from providing online  basis based on individual contractual agreement. the pay- items of property, plant and equipment are measured at 
food ordering services to restaurants, prime placement  ment terms vary between 2 and 90 days. any discounts are  cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment 
and other advertising services.  treated as a reduction of revenue. if the transaction price  losses. 
includes a variable amount, the transaction price is esti-
for the online marketplace services dh group entities act  mated and recognized to the extent that it is highly prob- depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the 
as an agent. in some arrangements, delivery hero also  able that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative  time period of the expected useful life of the asset.
offers delivery services. the dh group entities carry out  revenue will not occur when the uncertainty associated 
the delivery services as principal. for advertising services  with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved. in the reporting year, depreciation was based on the fol-
dh group entities act also as principal. lowing useful lives:
as explained in note c – changes in significant accounting 
the revenue is recognized when the control passes to the  policies, in the comparative period the revenue was recog- useful life in years
customer. the control over the online marketplace services  nized in accordance with the previously effective ias 18 
passes to the customer at a point in time when the meal is  revenue. under ias 18 revenue was recognized when the  2018 2017
ordered. the control over the delivery services passes at a  significant risks and rewards of ownership were transferred   
point in time when the meal is delivered. the control over  to the customer, recovery of the consideration was proba- operating and office 
 equipment 2 – 15 2 – 15
the advertising services mainly passes over time.  ble, the associated costs and possible return of goods could 
be estimated reliably, there was no continuing manage- leasehold improvements 3 – 17 3 – 17
the consideration for the online marketplace services with  ment involvement with the goods and the amount of rev-
and without delivery primarily comprise commission fees.  enue could be measured reliably. note c also explains the 
further included in the consideration are online payment  changes between previous and current revenue recogni- if there is objective evidence that items of property, plant 
fees if the orderer elects the online payment option and  tion principles. and equipment are impaired, the recoverable amount is 
subscription fees. if an additional delivery fee is charged  determined. if the carrying amount exceeds the recover-
directly to orderers this is also included in the consider- able amount, impairment losses are recognized directly in 
ation. the payments are collected via online payment pro- the statement of profit or loss. if the requirements for 
viders, as cash or via invoices to the restaurants. for ser- impairment are no longer in place in subsequent years, 
vices performed over time, at each reporting date, the  previous impairment losses are reversed.
revenue is recognized in the amount to which the dh group 
entity has a right to invoice. since the advertising services  repair and maintenance expenses are expensed at the 
are mainly provided as a series of distinct monthly services,  time of their occurrence. material innovations and 
this provides a faithful depiction of the transfer of the  improvements are capitalized.
services.
96
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
an item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized  amortization is based on the following useful lives: an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount 
on disposal (when the recipient obtains control of that  of a cgu exceeds its recoverable amount. the recoverable 
item) or when no future economic benefits are expected  useful life in years amount corresponds to the larger of fair value less costs 
from its use or disposal. of disposal and value in use of the cgu or a group of cgus.
2018 2017
05. intangible assets and goodwill   the fair value less costs of disposal of the cgu is calculated 
intangible assets acquired separately are recognized at  software 2 – 5 2 – 3 by applying the discounted cash flow method, as follows: 
cost. intangible assets acquired in a business combination  trademarks 3–25 5 – 25 the expected future cash flows are determined based on 
except for goodwill are initially measured at their fair value  customer and   a detailed planning period of five years for each cgu. for 
and subsequently at cost. the amortization is calculated  supplier  relationships 3 – 10 3 – 10 the perpetuity, the expected future cash flows are deter-
on a straight-line basis over the individual useful lives.  mined under consideration of cgu-specific revenue- and 
goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment  ebitda-growth assumptions. impairment losses are rec-
losses. the expected useful life of a trademark is forecast in accor- ognized in profit or loss. they are allocated first to reduce 
dance with verifiable history and observable user behavior.  the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cgu, 
internal development expenditure is capitalized if devel- the underlying useful life of customer and supplier rela- and then to reduce the carrying amounts of other assets 
opment costs can be reliably measured, the product or  tionships is determined individually corresponding to his- in the cgu on a pro-rata basis.
process is technically and commercially feasible, future  torical restaurant churn rates.
benefit is probable and the group intends and has suffi- an impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. 
cient resources to be able to complete development and  impairment of intangible assets intangible assets are test- for other assets, an impairment loss is reversed only to the 
to use or sell the asset. other expenditures are recognized  ed for impairment as part of a cash generating unit (cgu),  extent that the assetʼs carrying amount does not exceed 
in profit or loss as soon as they are incurred. capitalized  which is defined as the smallest group of assets that gen- the carrying amount that would have been determined, 
development expenditure is measured at cost less accu- erates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely  net of amortization, if no impairment loss had been 
mulated amortization and impairment losses.  independent of the cash inflows of other assets or cgus.  recognized.
goodwill arising from a business combination is allocated 
to cgus or groups of cgus depending on the level at which  06. leases
it is monitored by management. leases of property, plant and equipment where the group, 
as lessee, has substantially all the risks and rewards of 
a cgu or a group of cgus is tested for impairment if  ownership, are classified as finance leases. for finance 
impairment indicators are present. in addition, cgus and  lease arrangements the asset is recognized at an amount 
groups of cgus to which goodwill is allocated are subject  equal to the fair value of the leased property or – if lower – 
to an annual impairment test. at present value of the minimum lease payments in accor-
dance with ias 17 and depreciated over its useful life. the 
corresponding payment obligations from future lease pay-
ments net of finance charges are included in other current 
and non-current liabilities.
97
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
if lease arrangements in which the group is a lessee do not  a) current income taxes recognized in the statement of profit or loss. if the items 
meet the criteria for finance leases they are classified as  the current income tax expense is calculated by applying  in the consolidated statement of financial position are rec-
operating leases. lease payments are recognized as  the tax regulations enacted as of the reporting date in the  ognized directly in equity or other comprehensive income, 
expenses on a straight-line basis over the lease term. countries in which the dh group operates. in assessing  the corresponding changes in deferred taxes are also rec-
income tax positions, estimates are required. the assess- ognized in these line items, respectively. 
07. inventories ment by the respective tax authorities may deviate. this 
inventories of the group consist mainly of branded and  uncertainty is reflected by recognizing uncertain tax posi- deferred tax assets and liabilities arising through tempo-
unbranded packages, bags and other items that are pro- tions only if dh assesses the probability of occurrence  rary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, 
vided to restaurants. greater than 50%. associates or joint arrangements are taken into account 
unless the date for reversal of temporary differences can-
inventories are carried at cost, which is determined on the  b) deferred income taxes not be determined at group level or/and it is probable that 
basis of direct production costs and production-related  deferred taxes are recognized on temporary differences  the temporary differences will not reverse in the foresee-
overheads. inventories are carried at the lower of cost and  between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in  able future. 
net realizable value as of each reporting date. cost  the consolidated financial statements and the correspond-
includes all costs of purchase, production and other costs  ing tax bases used in the computation of taxable income.  deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if 
that are incurred in bringing the inventories to their  furthermore, deferred tax assets are recognized for tax  the group has a legally enforceable right to set off current 
 present location and condition. the first-in, first-out  loss carryforwards. tax assets against current tax liabilities, and deferred tax 
 method (fifo) is used to measure cost. net realizable value  assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the 
is the estimated selling price less estimated costs of com- deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable tem- same taxation authority and concern the same taxable 
pletion and estimated costs necessary to make the sale. porary differences.  entity. 
08. income taxes deferred tax assets are recognized for temporary differ- 09. financial instruments
taxes on income for the period are the sum of current   ences and tax loss carryforwards to the extent to which it 
and deferred income taxes. is probable that sufficient future taxable income will be  a) financial assets
available against which deductible temporary differences  policies applicable from january 1, 2018
and/or loss carryforwards can be utilized. initial measurement of financial assets
at initial recognition, the group measures a financial asset 
deferred taxes are measured in accordance with ias 12.  at its fair value plus, in the case of financial assets not 
they are measured at the tax rates that are expected to  measured at fair value through profit or loss, transaction 
apply to the period when the asset is realized or the liabil- costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the 
ity is settled. financial asset. transaction costs of a financial asset mea-
sured at fair value through profit or loss are recognized in 
the change in deferred taxes is recognized in the state- profit or loss. trade receivables are initially measured at 
ment of profit or loss provided it relates to items in the  the transaction price.
consolidated statement of financial position that were 
98
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
classification of financial assets after initial recognition, the carrying amount of the finan- in dh group, the impairment requirements apply to finan-
the group classifies financial assets at initial recognition  cial asset measured at amortized cost is determined using  cial assets measured at amortized cost, lease receivables 
as financial assets measured at amortized cost, financial  the effective interest method, net of impairment loss. in the scope of ias 17 and contract assets as defined in 
assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive  ifrs 15. 
income (not applicable at the reporting date), or financial  within dh group such financial assets are represented by 
assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. cash and cash equivalents, receivables against payment  trade receivable and contract assets
service providers, trade receivables, loans granted, secu- the group uses a practical expedient to calculate the 
financial assets measured at amortized cost  rity deposits and other receivables. expected credit losses on its trade receivables and contract 
a financial asset that meets both of the following condi- assets using a provision matrix. the group uses historical 
tions is classified as a financial asset measured at amor- cash and cash equivalents  credit loss experience (adjusted if necessary for changes 
tized cost. cash and cash equivalents comprise all cash-related assets  in macroeconomic conditions) to estimate the life time 
that have a remaining term of less than three months at  expected credit losses. the impairment losses calculated 
—   the financial asset is held within the groupʼs business  the date of acquisition or investment. this includes mainly  using the provision matrix are recorded on a separate 
model whose objective is to hold assets in order to  cash at banks and cash on hand. cash and cash equivalents  allowance account.
collect contractual cash flows; and are measured at nominal value.
—   the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on  trade receivables, which are longer than 120 days overdue, 
specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments  fair value through profit or loss financial assets (fvtpl) or specifically impaired (e.g. insolvency of the restaurant), 
of principal and interest on the principal amount  when a financial asset does not fall in any of the above - are deemed not recoverable. such trade receivables are 
outstanding. mentioned categories, a financial asset is classified as “at  recognised as impaired and written off. the write-off con-
fair value through profit or loss” and measured at fair value  stitutes a derecognition event whereby the gross carrying 
“principal” is the fair value of the financial asset on initial  with changes in fair value recognized in profit or loss as  amount of such trade receivables is reduced against the 
recognition and “interest” is consideration for the time  “finance gain” or “finance loss”. corresponding amount previously recorded on the allow-
value of money and for the credit risk associated with the  ance account. however, financial assets that are written 
principal amount outstanding during a particular period  in dh group these instruments are represented by invest- off could still be subject to enforcement activities in order 
of time and for other basic lending risks and costs (e.g.  ments in other companies. no financial assets are desig- to comply with the groupʼs procedures for recovery of 
liquidity risk and administrative costs), as well as a profit  nated as at fair value through profit or loss. amounts due.
margin. when assessing the contractual terms, the group 
considers contingent events that would change the  impairment of financial assets 
amount or timing of cash flows; terms that may adjust the  all financial assets to which impairment requirements 
contractual interest rate, including variable-rate features;  apply carry a loss allowance estimated based on expected 
prepayment and extension features; and terms that limit  credit losses (ecls). ecls are a probability-weighted esti-
the groupʼs claim to cash flows from specified assets (e.g.  mate of the present value of cash shortfall over the expect-
non-recourse features). ed life of the financial instrument.
99
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
other financial assets loans and receivables are initially recognized on the date  financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
the ecls for all other financial assets are recognised in two  when they are originated at their fair value plus any direct- the financial assets through profit or loss comprise sepa-
stages: ly attributable transaction costs. they are subsequently  rated embedded derivatives. such instruments are mea-
measured at amortized cost using the effective interest  sured at fair value through profit or loss.
—   for financial assets for which there has not been a sig- method.
nificant increase in credit risk since initial recognition,  cash and cash equivalents
the group recognizes credit losses which represent the  impairment of loans and receivables is recognized if there  cash and cash equivalents comprise all cash-related assets 
life time shortfalls that would result if a default occurs  is evidence of financial difficulties of borrowers and the  that have a remaining term of less than three months at 
in the 12 months after the reporting date or a shorter  carrying amount of the financial asset exceeds the present  the date of acquisition or investment. this includes mainly 
period if the expected life of a financial instrument is  value of estimated future cash flows discounted using the  cash at banks and cash on hand. cash and cash equivalents 
less than 12 months.  original effective interest rate. the impairment on trade  are measured at nominal value. 
—   for those financial assets for which there has been a  receivables is recognized using a provision matrix. impair-
significant increase in credit risk since initial recogni- ment losses are recognized in profit or loss and are reflect- b) financial liabilities
tion, a loss allowance reflects credit losses expected  ed in an allowance account. when the group considers  financial liabilities are classified as those measured at fair 
over the remaining life of the financial asset. that there are no realistic prospects of recovery of the  value through profit or loss or those measured at amor-
financial asset, the financial asset is written off. if the  tized cost. 
all other financial assets of the group recognised at the  impairment loss subsequently decreases, the previously 
reporting date have low credit risk. the group recognises  recognized impairment loss is reversed through profit or  no financial liabilities are designated as at fair value 
in profit or loss, as an impairment gain or loss, the amount  loss. through profit or loss.
of expected credit losses (or reversals) that is required to 
adjust the loss allowance at the reporting date to the  available-for-sale financial assets financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value, in 
amount that is required to be recognised. the available-for-sale financial assets of the group are rep- case of financial liabilities measured at amortized cost, 
resented by unquoted equity investments. equity invest- plus transaction costs.
policies applicable before january 1, 2018 ments are initially recognized on the trade date at their 
financial assets of dh group comprised loans and receiv- fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs.  financial liabilities of the group which are measured at fair 
ables, available-for-sale financial assets, financial assets at  they are subsequently measured at fair value through oci,  value through profit or loss comprise separated embedded 
fair value through profit or loss and cash and cash  unless their fair value cannot be determined reliably, in  derivatives and contingent considerations recognized by 
equivalents.  which case they are measured at cost. if there is evidence  the group as an acquirer in a business combination. all 
that available-for-sale financial assets are impaired, the  other financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost, 
loans and receivables impairment loss is recognized in profit or loss, measured  using the effective interest method.
loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets  as the difference between the acquisition cost and the 
with fixed or determinable payments that are not traded  current fair value. the impairment loss on an equity invest-
in an active market. they are included in current assets as  ment is not subsequently reversed through profit or loss.
long as their maturities do not extend beyond 12 months 
after the reporting date. otherwise they are classified as 
non current assets.
100
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
c) other requirements if the group has the right to settle financial instruments in  the fair value of any plan assets is deducted from the dis-
regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are  a fixed number of own shares, such financial instruments  counted pension obligation.
recognized at the price on the trade date. are classified as equity.
the interest rate effect included in pension expenses is 
interest income and expenses arising on financial instru- 10. employee benefits recognized in profit or loss under interest expenses. service 
ments are recognized in profit or loss according to the  cost is shown in individual functional areas in operating 
effective interest method. a) current employee benefits result.
current employee benefits are expensed in the period 
the group derecognizes the financial assets when the con- when service is rendered. a liability is recognized for the  c) share-based payments
tractual rights to the cash flows from the assets expire, or  amount expected to be paid if the dh group has a present  dh group operates several share-based compensation pro-
it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows  legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount, as a  grams. the group classifies its share-based compensation 
in a transaction in which substantially all of the risks and  result of past services provided by the employee, and the  programs as either cash-settled or equity-settled depend-
rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred.  obligation can be reliably estimated. ing on the terms and conditions of the individual program 
the group derecognizes a financial liability when its con- and the groupʼs intention to settle the awards with cash 
tractual obligations are discharged, cancelled, or expire.  b) pension obligations or its own equity instruments.
pension and similar obligations arise from the commit-
if the contractual terms of a financial instrument are amend- ments of a group entity to its employees. the obligations  the grant-date fair value of equity-settled share-based 
ed, the financial instrument is derecognized if the amended  of these defined benefit plans are measured using the pro- payment arrangements granted to employees is recog-
terms are materially different from the original terms. in  jected unit credit method. under this method, expected  nized as an expense, with a corresponding increase in the 
that case, the new financial instrument is recognized at fair  future increases in salaries and pensions are taken into  capital reserves in equity, over the vesting period of the 
value taking into account the amended terms.  account in addition to the known pension entitlements at  awards. the amount recognized as an expense is adjusted 
the reporting date. to reflect forfeited awards.
financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the 
net amount is presented in the statement of financial posi- pension obligations are determined by independent actu- the fair value of cash-settled arrangements is recognized 
tion when, and only when, the group has a legally enforce- aries. effects arising from the remeasurement of actuarial  as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities 
able right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle  gains and losses, the return on plan assets (excluding inter- over the period during which the employees become 
them on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the  est) and the impact of any asset ceiling (excluding interest)  unconditionally entitled to payment. the liability is remea-
liability simultaneously. are recognized in other comprehensive income. the dis- sured at each reporting date and at settlement date based 
count rate stated reflects the interest rate generated by  on the fair value of the awards. any changes in the liability 
senior fixed-interest bonds with matching maturities on  are recognized in profit or loss.
the reporting date.
101
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
if a share-based program is reclassified from cash-settled  12. determination of fair value in the consolidated statement of financial position in the 
into equity-settled, the amount of the liability reflecting  fair value is the price that would be received to sell an  line items “assets included in a disposal group classified 
the fair value of the granted awards at the reclassification  asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction  as held for sale” and “liabilities included in a disposal 
date to the extent the services were received is reclassified  between market participants at the measurement date in  group classified as held for sale” if they can be disposed 
into capital reserves. the primary market or, if this is not available, the most  of in their current condition, and if there is sufficient prob-
advantageous market.  ability of their disposal actually taking place.
11. other provisions
other provisions are set up if a legal or constructive obli- the fair value hierarchy defines three levels of fair value  discontinued operations are components of an entity that 
gation to the group, resulting from a past event exists, its  measurements depending on the input factors used in  are either held for sale or have already been sold and can 
fulfillment is probable and its amount can be reliably deter- determining the fair value: be clearly distinguished from other corporate operations, 
mined. recognition is made in the amount of the expected  both operationally and for financial reporting purposes. 
settlement amount.  —   level 1: fair value is based on quoted prices   additionally, the component classified as a discontinued 
(unadjusted) in an active market for identical   operation must represent a major business line or a spe-
due to estimation uncertainties, the amount, i.e. the actual  assets or liabilities. cific geographic business segment of the group. non-cur-
outflow of resources, may deviate from the original amounts  —   level 2: fair value is estimated using a valuation  rent assets that are held for sale either individually or col-
recognized on the basis of estimates.  technique which uses inputs that can be observed  lectively as part of a disposal group, or that belong to a 
either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly   discontinued operation, are no longer depreciated. they 
non-current provisions are recognized at the discounted  (that is, derived from prices). are instead accounted for at the lower of the carrying 
settlement amount as of the reporting date based on cor- —   level 3: fair value is estimated using a valuation tech- amount and the fair value less any remaining costs of dis-
responding term and risk adequate interest rates. nique that uses inputs that are not observable. posal. if this value is less than the carrying amount, an 
impairment loss is recognized. the gains and losses result-
where various input factors are relevant for measurement,  ing from the measurement of components held for sale as 
the fair value is categorized at the lowest level input that  well as the gains and losses arising from the disposal of 
is significant to the entire measurement. valuation tech- discontinued operations are reported separately on the 
niques used to measure fair value maximize the use of  face of the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
relevant observable inputs and minimize the use of unob- income under net profit or loss for the period from discon-
servable inputs. tinued operations, along with the income from the 
 ordinary operating activities of these components. the 
13. a  ssets held for sale and liabilities associated with  consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the 
assets held for sale and discontinued operations previous year is adjusted accordingly. the relevant assets 
non-current assets and the assets of a disposal group clas- and liabilities are reported on a separate line in the con-
sified as held-for-sale as well as any corresponding liabili- solidated statement of financial position. the cash flows 
ties of a disposal group classified as held for sale are rec- of discontinued operations attributable to operating, 
ognized separately from other assets and other liabilities  investing and financing activities are reported separately 
in the notes, with prior-year figures adjusted accordingly.
102
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
14. judgment and use of estimates determination of significant influence level of price index
in the application of accounting policies and the prepara- for entities in which dh group holds less than 20% of the 
tion of the consolidated financial statements, management  voting rights other, qualitative factors are considered in  change during  change during 
makes decisions based on judgment and estimates. this  order to assess whether significant influence over an entity  reporting period  previous period
applies particularly to the following cases: exists.  national cpi 47.6% 24.8%
a) judgments classification of share-based payments as equity settled
revenue recognition dh group classifies its share-based payments awards which  recognition and measurement of other provisions
dh group classifies its provision of online food ordering  enable the group to settle in equity shares or in cash as  recognition and measurement of other provisions are sub-
services via internet platforms as agent activity, as dh enti- equity-settled awards. the group assesses that it intends  ject to uncertainties in respect of future price increases as 
ties do not act as the main supplier, are not exposed to  and has an ability to settle by means of equity instruments  well as in respect of the extent, date and probability of 
storage risk, cannot influence the pricing of counterparties  and therefore does not have a present obligation to settle  utilization of the respective provision (refer to section 
and receive commission as remuneration. in cash (refer to section h. 01.). f. 11.).
although users of the dh platforms are generally not con- b) assumptions and estimation uncertainty scope for recognizing deferred tax assets
tracting party of dh group entities they purchase the  hyperinflation accounting an excess of deferred tax assets is only recognized if it is 
goods or services from dh group customers (restaurants).  in argentina reliable official data about nationwide con- probable that future tax benefits can be realized based on 
accordingly dh group deducts voucher and discounts  sumer price index (cpi) changes are unavailable for certain  tax budgets. the current taxable profit situation in future 
granted to orderers from revenue, equally to a consider- periods to which ias 29 may be applicable. based on the  reporting years, and thus the actual usability of deferred 
ation payable to the customer. current consensus in the argentine accounting profession,  tax assets, can vary from the estimate made at the date of 
the financial information of the groupʼs argentine subsid- recognizing deferred taxation. deferred tax assets on tax 
goodwill allocation  iaries are restated based on a historic cost approach using  loss carryforwards or temporary differences are recog-
determining an appropriate method of allocating goodwill  the nationwide cpi from january 1, 2017 ongoing and the  nized based on future taxable income (refer to section 
to cgus for impairment testing requires assessment of spe- nationwide wholesale price index (wpi) for financial data  f. 06.).
cific facts and circumstances which may involve significant  up to december 31, 2016, except for the two months of 
judgments. november and december 2015 for which the city of bue- goodwill impairment testing
nos aires cpi is used.  determination of a cguʼs recoverable amount for the pur-
pose of impairment testing requires assumptions and esti-
mates, in particular on the future development of ebitda 
and sustainable growth rates. while management believes 
that the assumptions and estimates used are appropriate, 
any unforeseeable changes to these assumptions could 
affect the groupʼs financial position and financial 
performance.
103
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
further information on the assumptions and estimates  significant valuation estimates are reported to the groupʼs  under ifrs 15, revenue is recognized when a customer 
made are listed in the respective disclosure. all assump- audit committee. further information on the assumptions  obtains control of the goods and services. the amount and 
tions and estimates are based on the conditions prevailing  and estimates made are listed in the individual disclosures.  timing of revenue recognition in the group remained the 
and assessments at the reporting date (refer to section  all assumptions and estimates are based on the conditions  same as under the previous rules with the following excep-
f. 01. b). prevailing and assessments at the reporting date. tion. under ifrs 15, the group will treat all discounts and 
vouchers to users of its platforms as consideration payable 
amortization of intangible assets with finite useful lives c. c hanges in accounting policies and   to the customer and consequently as a deduction from rev-
delivery hero has a significant amount of intangible assets  new standards and interpretations that  enue. previously such discounts and vouchers were treated 
with finite useful lives. this relates in particular to intan- have not yet been applied as marketing expenses. the change is accounted for pro-
gible assets from brands, trademarks and customer rela- spectively and does not impact the financial statements at 
tionships (refer to section f. 01. for carrying amounts).  a) changes in significant accounting policies the date of transition to ifrs 15 as of january 1, 2018. the 
assumptions and estimates are required to determine the  ifrs 15 and ifrs 9 have been initially applied from january 1,  corresponding deduction from revenue of continued oper-
useful life as basis for the appropriate amortization charge.  2018 and the effects of adopting the new standards are  ations for 2018 amounted to € 41.0 million.
the useful lives are regularly reviewed by delivery   described below. several other new standards are also effec-
hero and adjusted, if necessary. the determination of the  tive from january 1, 2018, but they do not have a material  ifrs 9 financial instruments
useful life of acquired brands, trademarks and customer  effect on the groupʼs consolidated financial statements.  ifrs 9 sets out requirements for recognizing and measur-
relationships is based on the individual customer churn rate  ing financial assets and financial liabilities and replaces 
of the business. ifrs 15 revenue from contracts with customers ias 39 financial instruments: recognition and measure-
ifrs 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for deter- ment. changes in accounting policies resulting from the 
measurement of fair values mining whether, how much, and when revenue is recog- adoption of ifrs 9 were applied retrospectively, except as 
a number of the groupʼs accounting policies require the  nized. it replaces the existing revenue recognition guid- described below. 
measurement of fair values for both financial and non- ance, including ias 18 revenue, ias 11 construction 
financial assets and liabilities. significant measurement  contracts and ifric 13 customer loyalty programs.  the group did not to restate comparative information for 
uncertainties are specifically relevant for the measurement  previous periods with respect to classification and mea-
of assets and liabilities in business combinations (refer to  dh group applied the modified retrospective method.  surement (including impairment) changes. differences in 
section d. 02.), the disposal group held for sale (refer to  accordingly, the comparative period is presented in line  the carrying amounts of financial assets resulting from the 
section d. 03. e), share-based payments (refer to section  with previous rules.  adoption of ifrs 9 were recognized in retained earnings 
h. 01.) and financial instruments (refer to section h. 02.).  as at january 1, 2018. 
104
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
the impact, net of tax, of transition to ifrs 9 at january 1,  impairment financial liabilities 
2018 was a loss of € 0.1 million resulting from recognition  ifrs 9 replaced the “incurred loss” model in ias 39 with a  ifrs 9 largely retains the existing requirements in ias 39 
of expected credit losses which was included in the  forward-looking “expected credit loss” (ecl) model. this  for the classification of financial liabilities. however, under 
retained earnings. the total impairment loss reported in  model requires considerable judgement as to how changes  ias 39 all fair value changes of liabilities designated as at 
2018 amounts to € 4.3 million (previous year: € 4.5 million).  in economic factors affect ecls, which is determined on a  fvtpl were recognized in profit or loss, whereas under 
the decrease is primarily the result of the further expan- probability-weighted basis. in the group, the new impair- ifrs 9 these fair value changes are presented as follows:
sion of online payments as well as offsetting arrangements  ment model applies to financial assets measured at amor-
with the restaurants. tized cost and to contract assets.  —   the amount of change in the fair value that is attribut-
able to changes in the credit risk of the liability is pre-
classification the group measures ecls on its trade receivables and con- sented in oci; and
applying the new classification requirements to the finan- tracts assets using a provision matrix. the new provision  —   the remaining amount of change in the fair value is 
cial assets outstanding at january 1, 2018, the financial  matrix was estimated based on the historical credit loss  presented in profit or loss. 
assets that were measured at amortized cost in accordance  experience adjusted where appropriate for effects of the 
with ias 39 were also measured at amortized cost in accor- current conditions and the forecasts of future develop-  the group has not designated any financial liabilities as at 
dance with ifrs 9. this is because these financial assets  ments.  fvtpl. therefore, there are no effects on the financial lia-
are held within a business model whose objective is to  bilities of the group from adoption of ifrs 9.
hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash  the group measures the loss allowances of other financial 
flows, and the contractual terms of these instruments rep- assets on either of the following bases: b)  new standards and interpretations that have not yet 
resent solely payments of principal and interest on the  been applied
principal amount outstanding. equity instruments that  —   12-months ecls (ecls that result from possible default  the following new standards and amendments to stan-
were classified as available-for-sale in accordance with  events within the 12 months after the reporting date);  dards are effective for annual periods beginning on or 
ias 39 and were measured at cost because the fair value  and after january 1, 2019. the group has not adopted any of 
could not be reliably measured are now classified at fair  —   lifetime ecls (ecls that result from all possible default  the new or amended standards early in preparing these 
value through profit or loss. the fair values of these equity  events over the expected life of a financial instru-  consolidated financial statements.
instruments were represented by their cost at january 1,  ment). 
2018 because there was no sufficient more recent informa-
tion available. lifetime ecl measurement applies if the credit risk of a 
financial asset at the reporting date has increased signifi-
cantly since initial recognition, and 12-month ecl measure-
ment applies if it has not. 
105
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
to be  ifrs 16 leases  previously, the group recognised operating lease expense 
applied 
delivery hero is required to adopt ifrs 16 leases from jan- on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, and 
standard from effects
uary 1, 2019. the group has assessed the estimated impact  recognised assets and liabilities only to the extent that 
     
that initial application of ifrs 16 will have on its consoli- there was a timing difference between actual lease pay-
ifrs 16 leases january 1,  refer to analysis 
2019 below dated financial statements, as described below. the actual  ments and the expense recognised.
impact of adopting the standard on january 1, 2019 may 
ifric 23: uncertainty over  january 1,  no significant 
income tax treatments  2019 effect expected change because:  based on the information currently available, the group 
(1.1.2019) estimates that it will recognise additional lease liabilities 
amendments to ifrs 9:  january 1,  no significant  —   the group has not finalised the testing and assess- and corresponding rights of use of € 86.2 million as at 
 prepayment features with  2019 effect expected ment of controls over its new it systems; and  january 1, 2019. 
negative compensation
—   the new accounting policies are subject to change 
amendments to ias 28:  january 1,  no significant  until the group presents its first financial statements  leases in which the group is a lessor
 long-term interests in  2019 effect expected
that include the date of initial application. the group will reassess the classification of sub-leases in 
 associates and joint ventures (iasb) *
which the group is a lessor. no significant impact is expect-
annual improvements   january 1,  no significant 
ifrs 16 introduces a single, on-balance sheet lease account- ed for other leases in which the group is a lessor.
to ifrs cycle 2015 – 2017:  2019 effect expected
amendments to ifrs 3,   (iasb) * ing model for lessees. a lessee recognizes a right-of-use 
ifrs 11, ias 12 and ias 23 asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and  transition
amendment to ias 19:   january 1,  no significant  a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease  the group plans to apply ifrs 16 initially on january 1, 2019, 
plan amendment, curtail- 2019 effect expected payments. there are optional exemptions for short-term  using the modified retrospective approach. therefore, the 
ment  or settlement (iasb) *
leases and leases of low-value items. lessor accounting  cumulative effect of adopting ifrs 16 will be recognised 
amendments to references   january 1,  no significant 
remains similar to the current standard – i.e. lessors con- as an adjustment to the opening balance of retained earn-
to the conceptual frame- 2020 effect expected
tinue to classify leases as finance or operating leases.  ings at january 1, 2019, if applicable, with no restatement 
work in ifrs standards (iasb) *
ifrs 16 replaces existing lease guidance, including ias 17  of comparative information. 
amendment to ifrs 3:  january 1,  no significant 
 definition of a business 2020 effect expected leases, ifric 4 determining whether an arrangement con-
(iasb) * tains a lease, sic-15 operating leases – incentives and  the group plans to apply the practical expedient to grand-
amendment to ias 1 and   january 1,  no significant   sic-27 evaluating the substance of transactions involving  father the definition of a lease on transition. this means 
ias 8: definition of material  2020 effect expected the legal form of a lease. that it will apply ifrs 16 to all contracts entered into before 
(iasb) * january 1, 2019 and identified as leases in accordance with 
ifrs 17: insurance contracts january 1,  no significant  leases in which the group is a lessee ias 17 and ifric 4. further it is planned to measure the 
2021 effect expected
the group will recognise new assets and liabilities for its  right-of-use asset at an amount equal to the lease liability 
(iasb) *
operating leases of office space, vehicles and other assets  at the date of initial application.
amendments to ifrs 10 and  – no significant 
(refer to section h. 09.). the nature of expenses related to 
ias 28: sale or contribution  effect expected
of assets between an  those leases will now change because the group will rec-
 investor and its associates  ognise a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and 
or joint ventures interest expense on lease liabilities.
* not yet endorsed by the european union. 
106
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
d. scope of consolidation the number of equity-accounted companies changed as  fair values  
at date of 
set forth in the following table:
eur million acquisition 
01. changes in the group
 
in the reporting period, the number of consolidated   number of equity-accounted companies1 intangible assets 10.5
subsidiaries changed as follows:
property, plant and equipment 0.1
2018 2017
trade and other receivables 0.5
number of consolidated subsidiaries   
january 1 2 2 cash and cash equivalents 0.5
2018 2017 additions 3 2 provisions and liabilities –0.5
  divestiture/consolidation 0 2 trade payables –1.2
january 1 137 136
december 31 5 2 deferred tax liabilities –0.8
additions 15 17
1  investment in takeeateasy.be sa, belgium eliminated from presentation   net assets 9.1
disposals (including   as in bankruptcy.
consideration transferred  26.8
mergers and liquidations) 27 16
goodwill 17.7
december 31 125 137
in 2018 delivery hero acquired shares in the on-demand 
  multi-vertical delivery platforms rappi inc. (“rappi”), usa 
the additions in 2018 partly relate to the acquisitions  (as of december 31, 2018, 19.5%), and glovoapp23 s.l.  as at january 31, 2018, delivery hero group acquired deliv-
across the europe, asia and americas segments (refer to  (“ glovo”), spain (as of december 31, 2018, 16.0%) as well  eras, a food delivery platform based in athens. the entity 
section d. 02.). additional to these acquisitions 9 entities  as sweetheart kitchen operations gmbh, germany (as of  operates a food delivery marketplace – offering vendor 
were founded and added to the consolidation scope in  december 31, 2018, 40.0%), a cloud kitchen solution which  delivery services to end-customers. the acquisition of 
2018. in 2017, particularly the acquisition of the carriage  are accounted for at-equity.  100% of the shares in deliveras represents a strategic 
group affected the number of consolidated entities.  investment in the greek market. the shares acquired are 
02. acquisitions representative of the voting rights. 
disposals in 2018 mainly result from the sale of the hun- during the year 2018, the group acquired deliveras s.a., 
gryhouse group as well as our operations in brazil, italy  greece (“deliveras”), euró magyarország kft., hungary  as at may 4, 2018, the group acquired pizza.hu, a food 
and switzerland. additional liquidations and mergers fol- (“pizza.hu”), cloud treats romania s.a (“hipmenu” and  delivery platform based in hungary. the entity operates a 
lowing group internal restructuring measures also led to  “hipdelivery”) and motwer sa (“alan”) which are present- food delivery marketplace – offering vendor delivery ser-
disposals in 2018. ed below: vices to end customers. the acquisition of 100% of the 
shares in pizza.hu represents the increased market poten-
tial in the hungarian market. the shares acquired are rep-
resentative of the voting rights. 
107
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
as at july 19, 2018, the group acquired cloud treats roma- the total consideration for acquisitions is allocated between  fair values  
at date of 
nia sa., a food delivery platform based in cluj, romania.  the recognized assets and assumed liabilities as follows 
eur million acquisition 
the entity operates under a mixed model offering both  based on provisional accounting in accordance with 
 
marketplace and own delivery services to end customers.  ifrs 3.45.
intangible assets 5.2
the acquisition in 100% shares of hipmenu represents a 
property, plant and equipment 1.0
strategic investment in the romanian market. the shares  none of the intangible assets have an indefinite useful life. 
trade and other receivables 0.7
acquired are representative of the voting rights.
goodwill, which consists primarily of not separable com- other assets 0.2
at november 5, 2018, the group acquired 100% stake in  ponents such as positive business prospects, is not deduct- cash and cash equivalents 3.1
motwer sa. (“alan”), a company owning “alan technology”  ible for tax purposes. provisions and liabilities –0.7
software. alan is exclusively used for providing application 
trade payables –3.6
solutions powered by propritary engine. this will support  combined trade receivables from third parties with a gross 
deferred tax liabilities –0.8
dh group in automating various communication processes  value of € 0.5 million were acquired and are assessed as 
net assets 5.0
for customer care, rider management as well as other per- being fully recoverable. 
sonnel related services. consideration transferred  84.8
since their first inclusion, the acquired entities have con- goodwill 79.8
during the year, the group also had some smaller asset  tributed € 1.7 million towards groupʼs revenues and a net 
deals in americas where it acquired netcomidas.com in  loss of € 0.7 million 
bolivia and megabite in ecuador, both online food delivery  further, delivery hero group had acquired fly & company 
platforms.  if the acquisitions had been consolidated as of january 1,  inc. korea on october 10, 2017 and appetitos24 group, 
2018 the entities would have contributed € 2.9 million to  panama on october 2, 2017. these were individually con-
the fair value of total consideration for all the acquisitions  revenue and a net loss of € 2.9 million. sidered to be insignificant and therefore presented in 
in 2018 is € 26.8 million which includes contingent consid- aggregate. the provisional accounting for these acquisi-
erations of € 6.1 million. the contingent consideration  acquisitions in the previous year  tions in accordance with ifrs 3.45 as of that date also 
depends on the future performance of the businesses; the  on june 14, 2017, delivery hero group acquired carriage  remained unchanged as presented below:
maximum amount of the contingency also being restricted  group with entities in several countries of the mena 
to € 7.8 million. in connection with these business combi- region. the provisional accounting for the acquisition in 
nations, no significant transaction costs were incurred. accordance with ifrs 3.45 as of that date remained 
unchanged as presented below:
108
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
fair values   the following tables provide summarized financial infor- summarized statement of cash flows  
at date of 
mation before intra-group elimination: of hungerstation llc
eur million acquisition 
 
  eur million 2018 2017
summarized statement of financial position of  
intangible assets 0.6
hungerstation llc   
property, plant and equipment 0.0 cash generated from 
fair values at 
 operations 1.0 1.2
trade and other receivables 0.6    date of acqui-
eur million dec. 31, 2018 sition net cash generated from  
other assets 0.1
operating activities 1.0 1.2
 
cash and cash equivalents 1.5
current net cash flows from  
provisions and liabilities –0.6 investing activities –1.4 –1.1
assets 10.8 7.4
trade payables –1.3 net cash flows from  
liabilities 25.1 11.8
financing activities –0.1 2.5
deferred tax liabilities –0.1
current net assets/net debt –14.3 –4.4
net change in cash and  
net assets 0.9
  cash equivalents –0.5 2.6
consideration transferred  13.4 non-current  
cash and cash equivalents  
goodwill 12.4 assets 122.6 117.9 at the beginning of the 
period 3.3 0.9
liabilities 0.8 0.3
effect of exchange rate  
non-current net assets 121.8 117.6
03. d  isclosures on participations pursuant to ifrs 12 movements in cash and  
total net assets 107.5 113.2 cash equivalents 0.0 –0.2
a) subsidiaries cash and cash equivalents  
at the end of the period 2.8 3.3
on december 31, 2018 dh group had 125 fully consolidated  summarized statement of comprehensive income  
subsidiaries. of hungerstation llc 
  accumulated non-controlling interests of hungerstation, 
eur million 2018 2017
refer to section h. 10. for a complete list of the groupʼs  ksa amounts to € –2.4 million as of december 31, 2018 
subsidiaries.   (december 31, 2017: € 1.1 million).
revenue 81.4  23.9 
b) nci earnings before income taxes –8.3 –4.6 as of december 31, 2017 the group had material nci (16%) 
as of december 31, 2018 the group has material nci (37%)  income taxes –2.0 2.2  in its subsidiary rgp korea ltd. that was considered 
in its hungerstation subsidiary (kingdom saudi arabia  earnings after taxes –10.3 –2.4 acquired based on the put option right of the minority 
(ksa)). shareholder in the third quarter of 2017. thus, for rgp korea 
other comprehensive income –11.2 –15.9
ltd. no minority interest is shown as of december 31, 2017 
total comprehensive income –21.5 –18.4
and 2018. (refer to section h. 02. a).
comprehensive loss 
 attributable to non- 
controlling interests –2.4 –1.1
109
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
c) associated companies summarized statement of financial position of rappi  2. glovo
as of december 31, 2018 dh group has interest in five asso- in july 2018, dh group invested € 51.2 million for a minority 
ciates of which two are material (2017: none material) to    stake of 15.0% in glovo, a limited liability company regis-
eur million 2018
the group. both of these associates are accounted for under  tered in barcelona, spain. glovo is a leading on-demand 
the equity method and are presented below:   and multi vertical delivery service platform providing 
non current assets 376.2
restaurant, grocery and other delivery services, operating 
1. rappi: current assets 220.5 majorly across europe and latin america.
during the year 2018, dh group invested € 138.1 million  non current liabilities –7.9
($ 163.9 million) for a minority stake of 19.5% in rappi, a  current liabilities –25.8 later in september 2018, the group sold its operations in 
delaware, usa based corporation. rappi is the parent com- italy to glovo in lieu of shares, thereby increasing the over-
net assets (100%)  563.0
pany of a leading on-demand and multi vertical delivery  all holding to 16.0%. the group has determined that it 
groupʼs share of net assets 
service platform in latin america providing restaurant, gro- (19.5%) 109.8 exercises as the investeesʼ largest shareholders significant 
cery and other delivery services.  influence due to meaningful representation on the board 
carrying amount of interest  
in associate 109.8 of directors of the investee and accordingly, applies the 
the group has determined that it exercises as the investeesʼ  equity method of accounting. 
revenue (100%) 46.6
largest shareholder significant influence due to meaningful 
profit from continuing 
representation on the board of directors of the investee and  below is the summarized financial information for glovo 
 operations (100%)  –138.0
accordingly applies the equity method of accounting. based on its consolidated financial statements prepared in 
other comprehensive income 
(100%)  –4.1 accordance with ifrs, adjusted for fair value adjustments 
below is the summarized financial information for rappi  at acquisition and differences in accounting policies:
total comprehensive income 
based on its consolidated financial statements prepared in  (100%) –142.1
accordance with ifrs, adjusted for fair value adjustments 
groupʼs share of total 
at acquisition and differences in accounting policies:  comprehensive income (19.5%)1 –28.3
1  dh groups share in rappi slightly fluctuated throughout the year 
due to multiple funding rounds. the reported share of 19.5% is as at 
year end. the weighted average share for the entire year was 19.9%.
110
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
summarized statement of financial position of   for individually immaterial associates:  during the year the group also divested its operations in 
glovo: australia. suppertime australia pty ltd. (foodora austra-
  eur million 2018 2017 lia), has filed for voluntary administration which has been 
eur million 2018
  accepted by local registrars. 
  carrying amount of interests 6.0 5.9
non current assets 254.9
share of profit/loss  e) discontinued operations
current assets 81.5  attributable to dh group 0.1 0.2 sale of hungryhouse group:
non current liabilities –13.3 other comprehensive incomaedd table  – – on january 31, 2018 delivery hero closed the sale of the 
current liabilities –39.5 hungryhouse group. the gain from this divestment 
net assets (100%)  283.6 for individually immaterial joint ventures amounted to € 261.3 million and is included in the net 
  result for the period from discontinued operations. 
groupʼs share of net assets  eur million 2018 2017
(16.0%) 45.4
 
sale of german operations
elimination of unrealised  carrying amount of interests 1.1  0.1 
profit on downstream sales  – on december 20, 2018 the company signed a transaction 
share of profit/loss 
document with takeaway.com n.v. pursuant to which 
carrying amount of   attributable to dh group  –2.9  –1.6 
 interest in associate 45.4 delivery hero is selling its german food delivery  businesses, 
other comprehensive income  – –
including all three brands to the takeaway group (the 
revenue (100%)  75.2 
“transaction”). the transaction was completed on april 1, 
profit from continuing oper-
ations (100%) –90.4 d) loss of control 2019. 
during the year 2018, delivery hero sold its operations in 
other comprehensive income 
(100%) 1.8 switzerland, italy and brazil to the group takeaway, glovo  the total consideration amounts to € 930 million, consist-
and ifood respectively and concluded the sale of hungry- ing of € 508 million in cash and 9.5 million shares in take-
total comprehensive income 
(100%) –88.6 house group, classified as held for sale as of december 31,  away.com n.v. worth € 422 million20, representing approx-
2017 to just eat. imately 15.5% of the total issued and outstanding share 
adjusted total 
 comprehensive income for  capital of takeaway.com n.v. as of the transaction comple-
investment period (100%) –61.7 at the time when control was lost in above mentioned  tion date.
groupʼs share of total  entities, they had aggregate cash and cash equivalents of 
 comprehensive income  € 9.2 million, assets other than cash and cash equivalents  delivery hero will have the right to submit a binding nom-
(16.0%) –9.8
of € 2.7 million and liabilities of € 56.8 million. ination for the appointment of one independent member 
to takeaway.com n.v.ʼs supervisory board. this right will 
the combined gain resulting from sale of operations swit- expire at the date delivery hero holds less than 9.99% of 
the table below includes in aggregate financial informa- zerland, brazil and italy was € 8.2 million and is included  takeaway.com n.v.ʼs issued and outstanding share capital. 
tion of individually immaterial associates and joint  as gain from disposal of subsidiaries presented in “other  the parties have agreed to a standstill period of four years 
ventures: income”. for the gain realized from the hungryhouse sale  following the completion of the transaction during which 
please see below. delivery hero and its subsidiaries, with limited exceptions, 
20  valuation based on € 44.40 per share equivalent to the last 10 day vwap  
as of december 19, 2018. 
111
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
shall, in particular, not directly or indirectly in any way  profit or loss from the discontinued operation  the oci (net) did not include foreign currency translation 
effect or cause to effect any increase in its shareholding in    gains or losses from discontinued operations in current year 
eur million 2018 2017
takeaway.com n.v. through any financial instruments or  (previous year: gains of € 1.4 million).
related derivative securities. during the standstill period   
revenue 106.2 142.3
and up to three years after that period, certain voting  assets and liabilities of the disposal group 2018  
restrictions, mainly on mergers and acquisitions related  consolidation of   (german operations)
intragroup revenue –6.0 –11.9
matters and in case of conflict of interest, will apply to   
delivery heroʼs shares in takeaway.com n.v. certain other  external revenue 100.2 130.4 eur million  2018
shareholder restrictions will apply to delivery hero during,  expenses –172.4 –190.3  
and for a limited period after, the standstill period. income 261.7 0.5 intangible assets 269.5
consolidation of   property, plant and equipment 0.2
the assets and liabilities are summarized as assets and  intragroup expenses 32.4 38.3 deferred tax assets 6.5
liabilities respectively included in a disposal group classi- external expenses 121.7 –151.5 inventories 0.7
fied as held for sale as of december 31, 2018. in accordance 
profit or loss from  trade and other receivables 13.7
with ifrs 5.15, the disposal group was measured at carrying   discontinued operations 221.9 –21.1
other current assets 0.4
amount as this is lower than the fair value less cost to sell.
income taxes 12.9 5.4
cash and cash equivalents 75.8
profit or loss from 
since the german operations sold in the transaction rep-  discontinued operations  assets held for sale 366.8
resent a material geographical operation within dh group  after taxes 234.8 –15.7 other liabilities 0.0
they are presented as discontinued operations in the con-
deferred tax liabilities 21.3
solidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehen-
other current provisions 5.8
sive income for 2018 and 2017.  income from discontinued operations includes the gain 
current trade and other payables 43.6
from the sale of hungryhouse of € 261.3 million. 
subsequently presented is summarized information of the  other nonfinancial liabilities (current) 4.1
net assets, financial position and result from discontinued  income tax liabilities (current) 0.0
operations, including hungryhouse group and the german  cash flows from the discontinued operation  liabilities held for sale 74.8
operations.   
eur million 2018 2017
 
net cash flow from 
 operating activities –46.1 –23.9
net cash flow from  
investing activities –1.9 0.0
net cash flow from  
financing activities 100.1 35.6
net cash flow for the year 52.1 11.7
112
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
assets and liabilities of the disposal group 2017 (hungryhouse) e. operating segments tation of information technology, (v) expenses for the 
achievement of capital market capability in prior years, 
eur million 2017 01. segmentation principles  and (vi) other non-operating expenses and income, espe-
  the management board of the company represents the  cially the result from disposal of tangible and intangible 
intangible assets 11.4 groupʼs chief operating decision maker (codm). in line  assets, the result from sale and abandonment of subsid-
property, plant and equipment 0.1 with the management approach, the operating segments  iaries, allowances for other receivables, and non-income 
deferred tax assets 0.1 are identified on the basis of the internal reporting struc- taxes.
ture. internal reporting is the basis for the allocation of 
inventories 0.3
resources and the evaluation of the performance of the  until december 31, 2018 revenue and adjusted ebitda from 
trade and other receivables 2.5
operating segments by the management board. german businesses classified as discontinued operations 
other current assets 0.1
is included in the segment presentation.
cash and cash equivalents 13.6 the groupʼs business activity is segmented according to 
assets held for sale 28.1 geographical attributes. there is separate internal report- from the measurement of the 2018 segment performance 
other liabilities 0.0 ing to the management board for the europe, mena, asia  excluded are operations of foodora australia, france, italy 
and americas regions. turkey is assigned to the mena seg- and netherlands abandoned or sold during the reporting 
deferred tax liabilities 0.1
ment and canada to the americas segment. the group  period. comparative information is not restated.
other current provisions 5.0
offers food ordering and delivery services with a different 
current trade and other payables 7.0
configuration of platform-based marketplace offers and  02.  segment information and reconciliation  
other nonfinancial liabilities (current) 1.7 delivery services depending on the respective markets.  of segment information 
income tax liabilities (current) 0.1 the regional range of services is determined partly by 
liabilities held for sale 13.9 demand, infrastructure, demographic circumstances, and  a) revenue
the competitive situation.  sales between segments are conducted at market prices. 
the revenue with external customers reported to the 
the profitability of the operating segments is measured  codm generally equals the measurement of the revenue 
on the basis of adjusted ebitda. adjusted ebitda is the  recognized in the statement of comprehensive income 
earnings from continuing operations before income taxes,  with exception to discounts and vouchers to users of the 
financial result, depreciation and amortization and  platforms that are treated as marketing expenses for 
non-operating earnings effects. non-operating earnings  reporting to the codm whereas effective january 1, 2018 
effects comprise, in particular (i) expenses for share-based  following the application of ifrs 15 (refer to section c) they 
payment, (ii) expenses for services in connection with cor- are deducted from revenue in the statement of compre-
porate transactions and financing rounds, (iii) expenses  hensive income.
for reorganization measures, (iv) expenses for the implemen- 
113
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
revenues are split across the segments as follows: b) adjusted ebitda consolidation adjustments substantially relate to the elim-
change ination of transactions with discontinued operations.
  eur 
change eur million 2018 2017  million % items excluded from segment performance in 2018 relate 
  eur    to operations in australia, france, italy and netherlands 
eur million 2018 2017  million % europe –56.8 –45.5 –11.3 24.8 divested during the reporting period of € 20.0 million (pre-
  mena  18.1 23.9 –5.8 –24.2 vious year: nil).
europe 221.3 198.8 22.5 11.3
asia –51.9 –47.1 –4.8 10.2
mena  316.4 153.3 163.1 > 100 in 2018 the management adjustments include expenses for 
americas –50.9 –25.4 –25.5 > 100
asia 192.5 144.8 47.8 33.0 services in connection with corporate transactions and 
adjusted ebitda 
of the segments –141.6 –94.2 –47.3 50.2 funding rounds of € 40.1 million (previous year: 
americas  62.1 47.4 14.8 31.2 € 22.3 million), expenses for reorganization measures of 
reclassification 
segment  to discontinued  € 3.9 million (previous year: € 5.1 million), and expenses for 
 revenue  792.4 544.2 248.2 45.6 operations 41.4 11.0 30.3 > 100 the implementation of information technologies of 
reclassification  adjusted ebitda  € 0.1 million (previous year: € 0.5 million) and expenses for 
to discontinued  of the segments  the realization of capital market viability of € 0.0 million 
operations  105.4 90.0 15.4 17.1 excluding  (previous year: € 5.0 million).
 discontinued 
segment 
operations –100.2 –83.2 –17.0 20.5
 revenue 
 excluding  consolidation 
 discontinued  adjustments –12.3 –13.3 1.0 –7.5
operations 687.0 454.2 232.8 51.2
items excluded 
reconciliation  from segment 
effects 19.21 –0.5 19.6 > 100 performance –20.0 – –20.0 > 100
discounts –41.0 – n.a. n.a. management 
adjustments –44.1 –32.8 –11.3 34.3
group revenue 665.1 453.7 211.4 46.6
expenses for 
1  reconciliation effects include gross revenue of operations abandoned   share-based 
or sold during the reporting period. in 2018 these divestments include  compensation –17.2 –69.5 52.3 –75.2
australia, france, italy and netherlands.
other reconcili-
ation items –0.2 9.4 –9.6 > 100
amortization 
and depreciation –47.7 –44.3 –3.5 7.8
net interest and 
other financial 
result –17.1 –91.1 74.0 –81.3
earnings before 
income taxes –258.8 –324.8 66.0 –20.3
114
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
other reconciliation items do include non-operating  a) revenue f. d  isclosures on the consolidated  statement 
income and expenses. in 2018 this item included in partic- of financial position
ular gains from the disposal of subsidiaries of € 4.4 million   
eur million 2018 2017
(previous year: € 19.5 million), impairment of other assets  01. intangible assets
and receivables of € 0.5 million (previous year:   
kuwait 99.5 47.5
€ 0.5 million), as well as non-income-taxes of € 5.5 million  a) reconciliation of carrying amount
(previous year: € 6.2 million).  korea 94.4 73.0 intangible assets declined by € 344.6 million in the current 
saudi arabia 92.3 49.4 year. this change is primarily due to intangible assets relat-
03. information about geographical areas other countries 378.9 283.4 ing to the german operations reclassified to assets includ-
the tables below show the revenue and non-current assets  ed in a disposal group classified as held for sale (€ 269.5  
subtotal continuing  
for material countries (> 10% of total group) in the group.  operations  665.1 453.4 million) and to negative foreign currency exchange effects 
the geographical allocation of the revenue and assets is  germany  96.8 90.3 (€ 74.5 million), predominantly the appreciation of euro 
based on the domicile of each subsidiary. against the turkish lira (€ 85.7 million). 
united kingdom 3.4 40.3
total 765.3 584.1
the decline in goodwill is mainly the result of the reclassifi-
cation of the german operations in discontinued operations 
(€ 129.0 million) and foreign currency effects, primarily the 
b) non-current assets appreciation of the euro to the turkish lira (€ 34.5 million). 
in contrast, goodwill additions of € 17.7 million mainly from 
  the acquisitions of cloudtreats romania s.a. (romania), 
eur million dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017
deliveras s.a. (greece) and pizza.hu (hungary) (refer to sec-
  tion d. 02.) reduced this effect. 
turkey 256.1 353.2
kuwait 195.8 192.2 goodwill is not subject to amortization.
germany 188.8 281.5
saudi arabia 127.7 122.8 the useful life of the brands identified as part of the acqui-
sitions is between five and ten years and that of the cus-
other countries 310.9 302.6
tomer and supplier relationships is eight to nine years. the 
total 1,079.4 1,252.4
remaining useful life of the other brands may extend from 
two to twentyone years; that of the other customer and 
non-current assets do not include financial instruments,  supplier relationships ranges between two and nine years.
deferred tax assets or assets for employee benefits.
115
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
amortization of intangible assets is recognized in admin-
istrative expenses, except for amortization of brands 
which is reflected in marketing expenses.
movements in intangible assets:
customer/ 
internally  supplier base 
 generated  and other 
licenses and   intangible   intangible 
eur million goodwill  similar rights trademarks software assets assets total
 
cost
as of jan. 1, 2018 733.0 5.1 426.5 18.4 8.5 168.9 1,360.3
additions through business combinations 17.7 0.0 0.6 6.9 0.0 3.0 28.2
disposals due to deconsolidation –6.2 0.0 –2.4 –0.9 –0.4 –0.2 –10.0
additions 2.9 0.5 0.7  9.1 5.1 5.7 24.0
reclassifications –128.9 6.7 –137.2 0.3 –0.7 –53.3 –313.1
disposals –0.2 –0.4 –0.2 –0.1 –0.1 –0.1 –1.1
translation differences –24.8 –0.2 –56.8 –0.6 –0.9 0.1 –83.2
as of dec. 31, 2018 593.5 11.6 231.3 33.1 11.4 124.2 1,005.1
 
accumulated amortization and impairment losses              
as of jan. 1, 2018 –19.5 –3.6 –58.8 –9.0 –3.8 –42.9 –137.7
disposals due to deconsolidation 0.5  0.0 2.2 0.9 0.0 0.1  3.6
amortization 0.0 –0.2 –14.5 –3.3 –3.1 –12.6 –33.6
impairment losses –4.3 – –0.2 –0.2 0.0 0.0 –4.7
reclassifications –  –1.5 20.7 0.0 0.1 16.5 35.8
disposals 0.2  0.4 0.1 0.0 –  0.0 0.7
translation differences 0.0 –0.1 6.9 0.4 0.3  1.2 8.7
as of dec. 31, 2018 –23.1 –5.0 –43.6 –11.3 –6.5 –37.6 –127.1
carrying amount as of dec. 31, 2018 570.4 6.7 187.7 21.8 4.9 86.5 878.0
carrying amount as of jan. 1, 2018 713.5 1.4 367.7 9.4 4.7 126.0 1,222.7
116
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
customer/ 
internally  supplier base  
 generated  and other 
licenses and   intangible   intangible 
eur million goodwill  similar rights trademarks software assets assets total
 
cost
as of jan. 1, 2017 706.7 4.9 479.2 15.4 6.7 177.9 1,390.8
additions through business combinations 93.0 0.0  3.7 0.9 1.1 1.9 100.7
disposals due to deconsolidation –4.8 –0.9 –0.7 –0.3 –0.1 – –6.7
additions 0.1 0.5 0.0 2.7 1.8 1.5 6.6
reclassifications – 1.1 0.1 0.4 0.0 –0.8 0.8
disposals –  0.0  0.0  –0.3 –0.2 –0.1 –0.6
translation differences –62.1 –0.6 –55.8 –0.4 –0.7 –11.7 –131.3
as of dec. 31, 2017 733.0 5.1 426.5 18.4 8.5 168.9 1,360.3
 
accumulated amortization and impairment losses              
as of jan. 1, 2017 –15.5 –3.5 –42.2 –5.4 –0.4 –29.8 –96.8
disposals due to deconsolidation – 0.5 0.3 0.1 0.1  – 0.9
amortization 0.0 –0.6 –21.9 –2.4 –2.6 –15.6 –43.2
impairment losses –4.0 – –0.1 –0.2 –  –0.1 –4.4
reclassifications –  –0.5 –0.1 –0.6 0.0 0.4 –0.8
disposals –  0.1 0.0  0.1 0.1  0.0  0.3
translation differences 0.0 0.4 5.2 0.3 0.2  2.2 8.2
as of dec. 31, 2017 –19.5 –3.6 –58.8 –9.1 –3.7 –42.9 –137.7
carrying amount as of dec. 31, 2017 713.5 1.4 367.7 9.3 4.8 126.0 1,222.6
carrying amount as of jan. 1, 2017 691.2 1.5 437.0 10.0 6.3 148.0 1,294.0
117
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
b) breakdown of goodwill goodwill of the cash generating unit (cgu) yemek sepeti  in 2017, goodwill impairment losses were recognized for 
for the purpose of impairment testing , the group allo- group declined as of december 31, 2018 compared with  the cgu croatia of € 2.0 million. in addition, the net assets 
cates goodwill to cash-generating units. in 2018, manage- previous year as a result of foreign currency translation  of 9coockies were written off resulting in an impairment 
ment adjusted regional management structures in each of  movements. loss of € 2.0 million. the total impairment losses were 
the segments and correspondingly aligned the goodwill  recorded within other operating expenses. 
allocation to cgus. accordingly, goodwill has been reallo- delivery hero germany comprises the brands lieferheld, 
cated to the level that represents the lowest level within  pizza.de and foodora germany. in 2018, foodora germany  the fair value less costs of disposal of the cgus (catego-
the group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal  was subsumed in the delivery hero germany cgu as part  rized as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy) was calculated 
management purposes.  of the regional management structure adjustments. fol- by applying the discounted cash flow method. basis for 
lowing the announcement of the planned disposal of the  determining the expected future cash flow is a detailed 
at december 31, 2018 and 2017 the goodwill was allocated  german operations, goodwill of delivery hero germany  planning period of five years for each cgu. for perpetuity, 
as follows taking into account the recognized impairment  has been reclassified to assets included in a disposal group  the expected future cash flows (before interest and taxes) 
losses per cgu: classified as held for sale, accordingly. of each cgus were determined under consideration of 
cgu-specific revenue growth and ebitda growth 
  in 2018, goodwill impairment losses of € 4.3 million   assumptions. 
eur million 2018 2017
(previous year: € 4.0 million) were recognized in connec-
  tion with the divestments of non-core operations. in 
hungerstation group 112.5 107.6
course of the 2018 annual impairment test the recoverable 
yemek sepeti group 101.5 136.0 amount of all cgus exceeded their carrying amount. 
carriage group 78.1 75.0 
talabat group 59.0 55.6 
nordics group1 44.9 – 
delivery hero germany gmbh – 125.7
subtotal 396.0 499.9
goodwill of other cgus 174.4 213.6
total 570.4 713.5
1  the cgu nordics group was introduced following the goodwill 
 reallocation in 2018. in 2017, the group was included in  
“goodwill of other cgus”.
 
118
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
the following table shows the key planning assumptions in 2018: the planning process for each cgu is based on a struc-
tured bottom-up approach that is carried out once a year. 
cgu 2018 the overall process is directed by central management via 
hunger- top-down target-setting in the form of country-/company- 
yemek   station  carriage   talabat   nordics  other  
specific kpis. the respective local management then 
% sepeti group  group group group group goodwill1
 prepares the business plan and adjusts it in an iterative 
 
process together with central management.
revenue growth p.a.  
in planning period (cagr) 18.5 15.1 38.6 18.4 16.6 28.2
local management teams use cohort models for revenue 
average ebitda margin  
in planning period 45.5 15.7 16.4 18.7 11.3 0.5 planning. the cohort models analyze the past order 
 behavior of (local) end customers and apply statistic 
terminal value revenue growth 13.3 1.3 1.6 1.9 0.9 2.0
 methods to forecast the future behavior of existing end 
ebitda margin  
after end of planning period 50.0 20.0 30.0 35.0 30.0 27.5 customers. future revenue from new end customers is 
derived from the planned marketing expenses and the 
average discount rate  
in planning period/wacc 22.3 8.4 8.7 9.3 7.5 10.5 development of estimated acquisition costs per new end 
customer. the main assumptions for the cohort models 
age of company (years) 17 4 4 7 8 9
include the customer retention/reorder rate, customer 
1 excluding the german business.
activity rate, average order size and commission rates.
the following table shows the key planning assumptions in 2017: costs, except for marketing, are planned using revenue 
based percentages.
cgu 2017
hunger- the equity component of 2018 wacc is based on a uniform 
yemek   station  carriage   talabat   nordics  other  
risk-free base rate of 1.25% for the euro area (previous year: 
% sepeti group  group group group group2 goodwill1
1.25%) and a cgu-specific risk premium between 7.7% and 
 
16.9% (previous year: 6.0% to 25.0%). the risk premium 
revenue growth p.a.  
in planning period (cagr) 23.9 16.6 26.5 14.0 14.1 16.8 mainly contains adjustment components for inflation and 
country risk as well as market risk and cgu-specific premi-
average ebitda margin  
in planning period 49.3 17.7 18.8 41.6 27.4 10.8 ums. additionally, cgu-specific risk premiums are applied 
to the free cash flows, which depend on the age of the cgu 
terminal value revenue growth 6.9 1.7 2.6 2.2 1.1 2.2
and decline towards maturity. further, an entity-specific risk 
ebitda margin  
after end of planning period 51.8 30.0 30.0 45.0 36.8 33.7 factor (beta factor) of 0.95 (previous year: 1.04) is used 
average discount rate  
in planning period/wacc 16.3 9.2 9.9 9.7 8.1 11.2
age of company (years) 16 3 3 6 7 8
1 excluding the german business.
2  the cgu nordics group was introduced following the goodwill reallocation in 2018.  
in 2017, the business was included in “other goodwill”.
119
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
across all cgus. tax rates of between 0% and 33% are  02. property, plant and equipment
applied dependent on the cgu/country. due to the assump- movements in property, plant and equipment:
tion of full equity financing, the wacc contains no debt 
component. advance 
 payments for 
leasehold  operating  property, 
as part of the annual impairment testing in 2018, a  improve- and office  plant and 
 sensitivity analysis was conducted. in each scenario, an  eur million ments equipment equipment total
increase of the base rate by 100 basis points (bps) and an   
absolute reduction of the planned ebitda margin by five  cost
 percentage points were assumed. none of these scenarios  as of jan. 1, 2018 9.3 28.0 0.2 37.5
triggered impairment in any cgu.
additions through  
business combinations 0.0 0.1 –  0.1
disposals due to  deconsolidation 0.0 –1.7 –  –1.7
additions 4.7 23.7 1.9 30.3
reclassifications –0.4 –2.6 –1.0 –4.0
disposals –0.1 –2.2 0.0 –2.3
translation differences –1.1 –1.2 0.0 –2.3
as of dec. 31, 2018 12.5 44.1 1.1 57.7
 
accumulated depreciation        
as of jan. 1, 2018 –1.7 –12.5 –  –14.2
additions through business combinations –  0.0 –  0.0
disposals due to  deconsolidation 0.0 1.3 –  1.3
depreciation –1.1 –10.2 –  –11.3
impairment losses 0.0 –0.3 –  –0.3
reclassifications 1.0 2.7 – 3.7
disposals 0.1 1.4 –  1.5
translation differences 0.0 0.3 –  0.4
as of dec. 31, 2018 –1.6 –17.3 0.0 –18.9
carrying amount as of dec. 31, 2018 10.8 26.8 1.1 38.8
carrying amount as of jan. 1, 2018 7.6 15.5 0.2 23.4
120
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
the increase in operating and office equipment is primar-
ily the result of acquisitions and increased business activ-
ities. in this context investments in pos equipment to 
onboard new restaurant partners and in computer hard-
advance  ware to employees were made. further, the relocation 
 payments for 
into new office premises in korea contributed to the addi-
leasehold  operating  property, 
improve- and office  plant and  tions in leasehold improvements. 
eur million ments equipment equipment total
  the reclassifications relate mainly to the reclassification 
cost of plant, property and equipment of the german opera-
as of jan. 1, 2017 4.9 21.3 –  26.1 tions to assets included in a disposal group classified as 
held for sale. 
additions through business combinations 0.1 1.4 –  1.5
disposals due to  deconsolidation –  –1.4 –  –1.4
operating and office equipment is leased to third parties 
additions 1.9 10.6 4.1 16.6
on a short-term basis only to a minor extent. the lessee 
reclassifications 3.1 0.4 –3.5 0.0 generally has the right to terminate the lease at any time.
disposals –0.4 –3.1 0.1 –3.5
translation differences –0.1 –1.2 –0.5 –1.8 03. other financial assets
other financial assets are composed as follows:
as of dec. 31, 2017 9.3 28.0 0.2 37.5
 
  eur million dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017
accumulated depreciation
 
as of jan. 1, 2017 –1.5 –9.1 –  –10.6 investments 43.4 28.7
additions through business combinations –  –0.5 –  –0.5 loans granted 2.9 1.8
disposals due to  deconsolidation –  1.0 0.0 1.0 miscellaneous 3.5 0.9
depreciation –0.6 –6.1 –  –6.8 total 49.8 31.4
impairment losses –  –  –  – 
reclassifications –  –  –  – 
investments as of december 31, 2018 mainly relate to 
disposals 0.4 1.6 –  2.1
shares in ani technologies private limited (ani), bengal-
translation differences 0.1 0.5 –  0.6
uru, india, acquired in 2017, holding company of the ola 
as of dec. 31, 2017 –1.7 –12.5 –  –14.2
group, with € 25.3 million. ani operates a mobility plat-
carrying amount as of dec. 31, 2017 7.7 15.5 0.2 23.4 form in india. in 2018 dh group acquired a minority stake 
carrying amount as of jan. 1, 2017 3.3 12.2 –  15.5 in barogo co. ltd., a logistics company in korea. the 
121
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
investment is recognized at its fair value of € 10.3 million.  the decrease in trade and other receivables is particularly  06. deferred income taxes
further, in 2018 dh group invested in several convertible  attributable to improvements in receivable management,  deferred tax assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2018 
loans in the total amount of € 7.3 million.  a higher online payment share and the classification of the  and 2017 are as follows:
german operations as held for sale.
04. trade and other receivables dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017
the following table gives an overview of trade and other  05. other assets    
receivables: other assets are composed as follows: eur million assets  liabilities  assets  liabilities 
 
    deferred taxes 8.8 50.6 28.2 109.9
eur million dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017 eur million dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017
offsetting –8.8 –8.8 –28.2 –28.2
   
total – 41.8 – 81.7
receivables from payment  advance payments/ 
 service provider 30.5 37.0 prepaid expenses 19.6 9.7
trade receivables 20.6 36.7 value-added-tax receivables 7.1 7.1
the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities results 
receivable from former  miscellaneous other assets 28.1 1.1
mainly from the classification of the german business as 
group company 0.0 12.3
total 54.8 17.9 discontinued operations. further, amortization of intan-
purchase price receivable 26.7 0.0
thereof current 54.5 17.6 gible assets identified in previous acquisitions and curren-
miscellaneous 7.3 2.8 thereof non-current 0.3 0.3 cy effects effected the deferred tax positions. 
total 85.1 88.8
the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities results 
as of december 31, 2018 the miscellaneous other assets  from the effects presented below:
the purchase price receivable represents an amount held on  contain receivables of € 22.1 million from funds transferred 
escrow from just eat inc. from the sale of hungryhouse in  to an escrow agent for the settlement of an earnout liabil-  
eur million dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017
january 2018.  ity in connection with the acquisition of carriage group. 
 
deferred tax assets 0.0 0.0
the receivable against a former group company in 2017 relat-
ed to the settlement of intercompany transactions with a  deferred tax liabilities 41.8 81.7
former indian subsidiary disposed in december 2017. net deferred taxes 
 recognized 41.8 81.7
year-on-year change –39.8 –22.0
thereof recognized  
in profit or loss –1.3 –12.2
thereof recognized 
directly in oci/equity 1 –11.9 –10.7
thereof recognized upon 
 acquisitions2 –26.6 0.9
1  includes translation differences of € 11.9 million (previous year: 
€ 10.7 million).
2  thereof relating to reclassification of the deferred taxes of the disposal 
group in the reporting period of € 27.4 million. 
122
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
deferred tax assets for tax loss carryforwards and deduct- eur mio dec. 31, 2018
ible temporary differences are recognized only to the extent  change  thereof 
that taxable temporary differences exist or that the realiza- deferred   deferred    during    recognized in 
tax assets tax liabilities the year profit or loss
tion of the tax benefit through future taxable profits is prob-
 
able. the group has not recognized any deferred tax assets 
assets
for temporary differences amounting to € 17.7 million (pre-
non-current assets
vious year: € 34.0 million). further, no deferred tax assets 
are recorded for trade tax loss carryforwards of  intangible assets 0.0 48.9 58.4 3.5
€ 209.2 million (previous year: € 196.7 million) and for cor- property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.6 0.0 0.0
poration tax loss carryforwards of € 588.7 million (previous  other financial assets 0.0 0.1 –1.0 –0.8
year: € 490.2 million). the trade tax loss carryforwards as 
trade and other receivables 0.0 0.1 –0.1 –0.1
well as the temporary differences have no limitations on 
 
utilization. the limitation on utilization of corporation tax 
current assets
loss carryforwards is as follows: 
inventories 1.0 0.5 –0.5 –0.4
other assets 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1
 
eur million dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017  
equity and liabilities
 
total corporation tax   non-current liabilities
loss carryforwards 588.7 490.2
pension provisions 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0
 
other provisions 0.3 0.0 –0.2 –0.2
expiration  
trade and other payables 0.6 0.0 0.6 0.0
within 5 years 56.1 36.0
other liabilities 0.1 0.0 0.1 –0.1
after 5 years 126.0 95.8
 
eligible to be carried  
current liabilities
forward indefinitely 406.5 358.4
other provisions 0.3 0.0 –1.0 –0.8
trade and other payables 0.5 0.4 1.6 1.2
significant unrecognized deferred tax assets for unused tax  other liabilities 0.1 0.0 –0.1 –0.1
loss carryforwards relate to delivery hero se amounting to  total temporary differences 3.1 50.6 57.8 2.2
€ 216.1 million (previous year: € 140.5 million), emerging  tax loss carryforwards 5.7 0.0 –17.9 –0.9
markets online food delivery holding s.à r.l. (luxembourg) 
total 8.8 50.6 39.9 1.3
(€ 53.5 million; previous year: € 5.7 million) and rgp korea 
offsetting –8.8 –8.8
ltd. amounting to € 52.9 million (previous year: 
total after offsetting 0.0 41.8    
€ 43.9 million).
classes of assets and liabilities related to temporary 
differences:
123
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
eur mio dec. 31, 2017 no deferred tax liabilities on temporary differences relating 
change  thereof  to interests in subsidiaries of € 7.4 million (previous year: 
deferred   deferred    during    recognized in  € 8.6 million) were recognized, as it is not probable that the 
tax assets tax liabilities the year profit or loss
temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable 
 
future. 
assets
non-current assets
07. inventories
intangible assets 0.0 107.3 19.5 9.0 inventories mainly consists of packaging materials such as 
other financial assets 0.0 0.5 –0.2 –0.2 pizza boxes, and advertising materials that are sold to part-
trade and other receivables 0.9 0.0 2.0 2.0 ner restaurants. 
 
current assets the amount of inventories recognized as an expense 
during the period amounts to € 5.6 million (previous year: 
inventories 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
€ 0.9 million).
trade and other receivables 1.3 0.3 0.7 0.7
other assets 0.0 0.0 –0.4 –0.3
08. cash and cash equivalents
  cash and cash equivalents are composed as follows:
equity and liabilities
non-current liabilities  
financial liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.5 0.5 eur million dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017
pension provisions 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1  
cash at banks 357.1 625.6
other provisions 0.5 0.0 0.1 0.1
cash on hand 7.0 1.8
trade and other payables 0.0 0.0 1.7 1.7
total 364.1 627.3
 
current liabilities
other provisions 1.3 0.0 –1.1 –0.7
besides the negative cash flow from operating activities 
trade and other payables 0.3 1.7 –2.1 –2.2
due to the continuing investments in the growth of the 
other liabilities 0.2 0.0 0.1 0.2 group, primarily marketing investments, the change in 
total temporary differences 4.6 109.9 21.0 10.7 cash and cash equivalents mainly consists of the following 
tax loss carryforwards 23.6 0.0 1.0 1.5 developments:
total 28.2 109.9 22.0 12.2
offsetting –28.2 –28.2
total after offsetting 0.0 81.7
124
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
cash inflows the change in equity in 2018 is explained below. b) authorised and conditional capital:
—   purchase price (net of escrow amounts and cash  the authorised and conditional capital of delivery hero se 
 balances) received from the sale of hungryhouse of  a) subscribed capital as on december 31, 2018 consists of 154,571,882 shares 
€ 231.0 million (refer to section d. 03. e) between january 1, 2018 and december 31, 2018 the num- (december 31, 2017: 130,729,010 shares)
—   capital increases of € 12.2 million in connection with  ber of shares increased from 182,498,900 to 185,930,494 
the exercise of equity settled stock options in 2018  in the course of three capital increases. as at reporting  c) capital reserves
(refer to section f. 09. a) and f. 09. c) date, 78,230 shares (previously 20,300) are held as treasury  dhʼs capital reserves increased by € 26.9 million in the 
shares. reporting year which is attributable to the following 
cash outflows circumstances:
—   payments for minority investments in rappi and  the nominal value is € 1.00 per share. the subscribed cap-
 glovo € 189.3 million (refer to d. 03. c) ital of delivery hero se as on december 31, 2018 was fully  —    € 10.3 million contributions of the premiums from 
—   acquisition of the subsidiaries across europe and  paid up. issuing new registered shares in the course of the 
latam (net of cash balances) € 18.7 (refer to d. 02.). exercise of equity settled options 
the change in subscribe capital is summarized as follows:  —   € 18.8 million increase due to further vesting of the 
refer to the consolidated statement of cash flows for     equity settled share based payment awards.
eur 2018
a detailed presentation of the cash flows of the period. —   in connection with the acquisition of non-con-
  trolling interests (nci) from rgp korea ltd. the relat-
subscribed capital on january 1 182,498,900 
as of the reporting date € 0.5 million were restricted   ed put-liability was reclassified into equity in 2017. 
in use. thereof treasury shares 20,300 the acquisition was completed in 2018 by way of a 
issuances for non-cash contribution 1,474,917 capital increase for a contribution-in-kind. this led 
09. equity issuances for cash contribution 1,956,677 to a decrease of the capital reserve through reclassi-
following the transformation of its legal form from a ger- fication of the nominal amount to subscribed capi-
registered capital on december 31  185,930,494
man stock corporation (aktiengesellschaft, ag) to a euro- tal of € 1.5 million. 
thereof treasury shares 78,230
pean stock corporation (societas europaea, se) the com-
pany has been trading as delivery hero se, berlin, since 
july 13, 2018.
the increase in subscribed capital for cash contribution 
the minimum capital requirement for the subscribed cap- relates to the exercise of equity settled stock options during 
ital increased due to the transformation from € 50,000  the year 2018.
for an ag to € 120,000 for a se.
the issuance of subscribed capital for non-cash contribu-
tion relates to the acquisition of non-controlling interest 
in rgp korea ltd. – see below for further details.
125
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
d) retained earnings and other reserves 10. pension provisions
other comprehensive income for the period developed as  in accordance with statutory requirements the dh group 
follows: maintains defined benefit plans in korea and turkey. in 
korea, beneficiaries are entitled to one month salary for 
attributable to the owners of the parent each year of employment after one year of continuous 
revaluation  total other  employment. the payment is measured on the average 
currency  reserve   non-    compre-  monthly pay during the final three months of employment 
 translation  for pension  controlling   hen sive
and is awarded as a lump-sum. the retirement age in 
eur million reserve  commitments total interests income (loss)
korea is 60 years. in turkey, lump-sum termination indem-
 
nities are provided to each employee who has completed 
2018          
one year of service and whose employment is terminated 
effect from foreign currency  
due to retirement or for reasons other than resignation or 
translation differences –93.0 – –93.0 0.0 –93.0
misconduct.
remeasurement of net liability  
from defined benefit plans – –0.4 –0.4 – –0.4
the provision is determined using the projected unit credit 
total –93.0 –0.4 –93.4 0.0 –93.4
method. the actuarial assumptions underlying the calcu-
 
lation are summarized below:
2017          
effect from foreign currency  
    
translation differences –97.6 –0.0 –97.6 –1.0 –98.6
% 2018 2017
remeasurement of net liability  
 
from defined benefit plans 0.0 –0.3 –0.3 – –0.3
actuarial interest rate 2.13 – 3.60 1.50 – 8.42
total –97.6 –0.3 –97.8 –1.0 –98.8
salary trend 2.69 – 11.00 2.50 – 11.60
mortality – males 0.03 0.02
the effect of movement in exchange rates in 2018 and 2017  e) treasury shares mortality – females 0.01 0.02
is mainly attributable to the appreciation of the euro as  the number of treasury shares increased to 78,230 as of 
well as devaluation of other currencies, most notably the  december 31, 2018 (previous year: 20,300). 57,930 shares 
turkish lira and argentinian peso against the euro.  with a nominal value of € 1.00 were transferred to delivery  
hero se by delivery hero commons gmbh & co. kg (dh 
commons). dh commons previously held the shares in 
delivery hero se as a trustee for former employees of 
delivery hero se. since the cliff period was not passed the 
shares fell back to dh commons. in the course of the ter-
mination of the trust relationship of dh commons the 
shares were transferred back to delivery hero se.
126
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
sensitivities of the present value of the defined benefit  the present value of the defined benefit obligation  in prior year the other provisions included provisions for 
obligations (dbo) are presented below: changed as follows: the cash-settled rgp korea share-based payments awards 
          accounted for in accordance with ifrs 2. these were exer-
eur million 2018 2017 eur million 2018 2017
cised in the first half of 2018 contributing to the decrease 
    in other provisions (current) of € 12.8 million. 
dbo on the basis of the  dbo on jan. 1 1.9 1.2
 current discount rate 
assumption 2.7 1.9 addition due to   other provisions include expected closing costs in connec-
business combination – 0.2
tion with the liquidation of the foodora businesses in 
dbo given an increase in  
service cost 1.3 2.0
the discount rate of    australia and france. settlement is expected within the 
1 percentage point 2.6 1.8 pension benefits –0.6 –1.0 next twelve months. 
dbo given a decrease in   interest expense 0.0 0.0
the discount rate of   actuarial losses 0.1 0.1 other provisions related to the german operations are 
1 percentage point 2.9 2.1
reclassified to the liabilities of the disposal group classified 
currency translation 0.0 0.0
dbo on the basis of the  as held for sale.
 current salary trend  dbo on dec. 31 2.7 2.4
 assumption 2.7 1.9
restoration obligations arise from lease arrangements for 
dbo given an increase in  
the dh group has no qualifying plan assets recognized in  office premises in several countries. settlement of these 
the salary trend of  
1 percentage point 2.9 2.1 the consolidated statement of financial position as of  liabilities is contingent on the underlying lease terms. dh 
december 31, 2018 and 2017. group expects to settle the liability over the next eight 
dbo given a decrease in  
the salary trend of   years.
1 percentage point 2.6 1.8 contributions of € 0.3 million are expected to the pension 
plans for the 2019 financial year. as of the reporting date, contingent liabilities from legal 
disputes amount to € 0.2 million (previous year: 
11. other provisions € 0.3 million). 
the other provisions comprise short term employee ben-
efits and termination benefits accounted for in accordance 
with ias 19, mainly bonuses and redundancy payments. 
the group expects the liability to be settled within the 
next twelve months.
127
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
the following table shows the change of other provisions  12. trade and other payables
and their breakdown by maturity date: trade and other payables are composed as follows:
restoration  share-base  eur million dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017
obligation personnel payment others total
 
  current financial liabilities
as of jan. 1, 2018 1.8  8.6  12.3 1.9 24.7
restaurant liabilities 105.6 81.3
addition 1.0 4.4 0.6 5.2 11.1
trade payables 29.3 28.8
utilized –0.1 –5.4 –12.8 0.0 –18.3
liabilities for  
reclassification1 –0.3 –1.0 0.0 –4.2 –5.6 outstanding invoices 29.4 20.4
reversed 0.0 –0.5 0.0 0.0 –0.5 financial liabilities  
from put option on nci 0.0 2.6
exchange rate differences 0.0 –0.8 0.0 0.1 –0.6
finance leases 1.3 1.3
 
as of dec. 31, 2018 2.4 5.4 0.1  3.1  11.0 security deposits received 0.9 0.7
non-current 2.2 2.5 0.0 1.5 6.2 purchase price liabilities  
and earn-outs 5.5  0.0
current 0.0 3.2 0.1 1.5 4.9
total current  
1  relates according to ifrs 5 to the reclassification of the german food delivery operations to liabilities, included in a disposal group classified  
as held for sale.  financial liabilities 172.0 135.1
 
non-current financial  
liabilities    
finance leases 1.1 2.4
trade payables 1.6 0.1
purchase price liabilities  
and earn-outs 5.3  0.0
security deposits received 0.6 0.4
total non-current liabilities 8.6 2.8
128
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
the purchase price liabilities and earn-outs include  other long-term employee benefit liabilities (non-current  g. d  isclosures on the consolidated  statement 
 obligations from the acquisitions of deliveras, hipmenu,  and current portion) arose during the acquisitions in 2017.  of comprehensive income
pizza.hu and alan in 2018. employees of the acquired entities are entitled to payments 
contingent on performance targets over an agreed service  01. revenue
the put-options on nci was exercised in 2018 (previous  period.  the effect of initially applying ifrs 15 on the groupʼs reve-
year: liability from put option on nci € 2.6 million). nue from contracts with customers is described in note c. 
received prepayments in 2017 related to a prepayment  due to the transition method chosen, comparative infor-
13. other liabilities received for the sale of the hungryhouse group to justeat  mation has not been restated.
other liabilities are composed as follows: which was settled in 2018 through closing of the 
transaction. revenue is composed as follows:
eur million dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017 change
  liabilities to employees primarily relate to wages and sala-   adjusted  eur 
non-current other liabilities     ries of € 12.0 million (previous year: € 6.9 million) and  eur million 2018 2017  million %
other long-term   unused vacations of € 5.9 million (previous year:   
employee benefits 3.2 15.1  € 4.5 million). commissions 501.8 337.8 163.9 48.5
miscellaneous 0.0 0.1 delivery fees1 102.8 41.72 61.1 > 100
total non-current   14. income tax liabilities prime placings 50.8 37.5 13.3 35.5
other liabilities 3.2 15.2 income tax liabilities arose in group entities with positive 
credit card use 25.2  14.2 11.1 78.2 
  taxable income.
other 25.5  22.5 3.0  13.4 
current other liabilities    
discounts –41.0 – 3  –41.0 > 100
taxes and charges 12.7 11.2 reimbursement claims from overpayment of trade and 
liabilities to employees 18.0 11.5 corporation taxes are shown in income tax receivables. total 665.1 453.7 211.4 46.6
received prepayments 0.0 6.7 1 fees charged separately to the orderer for delivery services.
2  commission revenue from own delivery business was partially included in 
deferred income 2.3 1.8 the revenue category delivery fees in 2017 (€ 20.7 million). all income 
from commissions in 2018 is presented within commission revenue, only 
social security liabilities 3.6 2.5 delivery fees separately charged to the orderer are reflected in delivery 
fees. the comparative financial information is adjusted.
other long-term employee  3  first time adoption of ifrs 15: effective january 1, 2018 revenue is 
benefits (current portion) 22.1 0.3   presented net of discounts. prior period information is not adjusted. 
 discounts in 2017 amounted to € 26.5 million that are reflected in 
miscellaneous 9.6 7.9  customer acquisition costs of marketing expenses.
total current  
other  liabilities 68.4 41.9
129
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
in the following table, revenue is further disaggregated by 
segment and by type of service (commission/non-commis-
sion).
segments
europe
(without germany) asia americas mena others total
eur million 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017
 
commission 92.8 84.8  128.0  90.2  47.6 38.7 221.2 124.2 12.2 0.0 501.8 337.8
discounts on commissions –41.0 –
total commissions revenue 92.8 84.8 128.0 90.2 47.6 38.7 221.2 124.2 12.2 0.0 460.8 337.8
non-commission revenue 23.1 23.9 64.5 54.5 14.5 8.5 95.2 29.0 7.0 0.0 204.3 115.9
total group revenue 
(continued operations) 115.9 108.7 192.5 144.7 62.1 47.2 316.4 153.2 19.2 0.0 665.1 453.7
“others” includes revenues of operations abandoned or  02. cost of sales the increase in cost of sales is primarily attributable to the 
sold during the reporting period. in 2018 these divestments  cost of sales are composed as follows: expansion of the delivery business. delivery expenses 
include australia, france, italy and netherlands. include own delivery personnel (€ 95.7 million, previous 
change year: € 48.8 million) as well as external riders and other 
refer to section e. 02. a) for the development of revenue    adjusted  eur  operating delivery expenses (€ 162.6 million, previous year: 
per segment. the growth in revenue is mainly driven by  eur million 2018 2017  million % € 76.9 million).
organic growth in all segments.  
delivery  general business growth leads to higher overall cost of 
expenses –258.3 –125.7 –132.6 > 100
sales. fees for payment services are further impacted by 
fees for payment 
a higher online payment share.
services –28.3 –18.7 –9.6 51.4
server hosting –9.1 –7.2 –1.9 26.4
purchase of ter-
minals and other 
pos systems –6.8 –6.3 –0.5 7.3
expenses for 
data transfer –2.5 –5.4 2.9 –53.4
goods and 
 merchandise –3.8 –2.8 –1.0 37.7
call center 
expenses –0.5 –0.4 –0.1 33.6
other costs  
of sales –8.6 –7.1 –1.6 22.0
130 total –318.0 –173.6 –144.4 83.2
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
03. marketing expenses 04. it expenses 05. general administrative expenses
marketing expenses are composed as follows: it expenses are composed as follows: general administrative expenses are composed as follows:
change change change
  adjusted  eur    adjusted  eur    adjusted  eur 
eur million 2018 2017  million % eur million 2018 2017  million % eur million 2018 2017  million %
     
customer  personnel  personnel 
 acquisition –148.6 –135.5 –13.1 9.6 expenses –38.2 –29.9 –8.3 27.6 expenses –96.8 –62.3 –34.4 55.2
restaurant  other non-  audit and 
 acquisition –91.7 –62.5 –29.2 46.7 personnel    consulting 
it expenses –16.1 –11.2 –4.9 44.0 expenses –25.8 –28.9 3.1 –10.6
amortization  
of brands –13.6 –16.0 2.5 –15.4 total –54.3 –41.1 –13.2 32.1 share-based 
 payment 
amortization  
expenses –17.2 –69.5 52.3 –75.2
of customer/ 
supplier base –13.0 –13.0 0.0 0.2 it expenses primarily relate to research and development  rent and lease 
(€ 36.2 million; previous year: € 29.0 million) of new fea- expenses –15.8 –13.0 –2.8 21.3
other marketing 
expenses –47.1 –31.2 –15.9 51.1 tures and services that may be added to the groupʼs plat- other office 
forms but also to the improvement and maintenance of  expenses –11.7 –8.7 –2.9 33.4
total –313.9 –258.2 –55.8 21.6
the existing functionalities.  depreciation and 
amortization –13.7 –8.7 –5.0 57.9
marketing expenses in the prior period include vouchers  focus was also placed in 2018 to the extension of the tech  travel expenses –9.1 –6.4 –2.7 43.0
and rebates amounting to € 26.5 million. in 2018 these costs  teams globally in order to improve the user experience on  other (non- 
are deducted from revenue. all our local platforms (mainly in hungerstation, carriage  income) taxes  –5.5 –6.2 0.7 –11.5
and pedidosya). telecommuni-
aside organic growth in certain markets in 2018, an addi- cations –3.1 –2.3 –0.7 31.6
tional investment program into future growth was  miscellaneous –18.5 –12.1 –6.3 52.3
launched in the second half of 2018 and contributed to the  total –217.2 –218.3 1.1 –0.5
increase in marketing expenses.
131
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
the increase in personnel expenses is affected by the  07.  other operating expenses and impairment   08. net interest cost
increase of the number of employees. further, expenses  losses on trade receivables and contract assets net interest cost is composed as follows:
of € 30.1 million (previous year: € 15.7 million) were recog- other operating expenses are composed as follows:
nized herein for earn-out liabilities in connection with  change
acquisitions in 2017. change   adjusted  eur 
  adjusted  eur  eur million 2018 2017  million %
the decrease in share-based payments expense is mainly  eur million 2018 2017  million %  
due to the restructuring of the groups share-based com-   interest and 
pensation programs in the first six months 2017. for fur- loss from   similar income 5.5 3.7 1.8 49.6
 disposal of  interest and 
ther information on the groupʼs share-based payment pro-
 subsidiaries –3.8 –0.8 –3.1 >100  similar expenses –2.7 –21.6 18.9 –87.4
grams refer to section h. 01.
losses on the  total 2.8 –17.9 20.7 > 100
disposal of  
06. other operating income fixed assets –0.3 –0.5 0.2 –44.5
other operating income is composed as follows: impairment   the repayment of financial lliabilities in the previous year 
of goodwill –4.3 –4.0 –0.3 7.9 led to the significant decrease in interest expenses in 2018. 
change miscellaneous –0.8 –1.5 0.7 –45.7 the interest income predominantly results from interest 
  adjusted  eur  on excess cash.
total other 
eur million 2018 2017  million %
operating 
  expenses –9.2 –6.8 –2.5 36.6
gains from  
impairment 
disposal of  
losses on trade 
subsidiaries 8.2 20.3 –12.0 –59.3
receivables –4.3 –14.6 10.3 –70.8
miscellaneous 1.8 4.7 –2.9 –61.8
total 10.0 25.0 –14.9 –59.8
losses from disposal of subsidiaries include mainly losses 
from liquidations in connection with a clean up of the group 
during the year 2018, the divestitures of our subsidiaries  structure in the mena segment. 
in italy, brazil and switzerland resulted in a disposal gain 
of € 8.2 million (refer to section d. 03. d). in 2017 the dis- in connection with divestments of non-core operations the 
posal gain of € 20.3 million resulted from the disposal of  goodwill was impaired by € 4.3 million. 
foodpanda india.
the bad debt expense decreased as a result of the imple-
mentation of initiatives to improve working capital, includ-
ing the process of collection of trade receivables. moreover, 
the increase in online payment share leads to a reduced 
exposure to credit risk. 
132
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
09. o  ther financial result and result from  the result from equity accounted investees amounted to  10. income taxes
 equity-accounted investees negative € 38.6 million (prior year: negative € 1.6 million)  expenses or income for income taxes are broken down as 
other financial result is composed as follows: mostly resulting from the pro rata loss of the investments  follows:
in rappi and glovo since their acquisitions in 2018. 
change change
  adjusted  eur  foreign currency gains and losses predominantly resulted    adjusted  eur 
eur million 2018 2017  million % from the appreciation of euro in connection with intercom- eur million 2018 2017  million %
  pany loan agreements and foreign currency balances.  
losses from  income tax 
remeasurement  expense/
in 2018 argentina was evaluated as a hyperinflationary econ-
of other  (income) –18.3 –7.5 –10.8 > 100
 financial  omy. the application of ias 29 resulted in a net gain of 
current  
 liabilities 0.0 –43.9 43.9 > 100 € 3.7 million on the net monetary position of the  argentine 
income taxes –19.6 –13.6 –6.0 44.2
gains/losses  operations (previous year: € 0.0 million, since argentina was 
current period 
from remeasure- not considered hyperinflationary in 2017).  income taxes  –19.7 –13.5 –6.2 45.9
ment of 
 derivatives 0.0 0.8 –0.8 –86.4 prior period 
the prior year losses from remeasurement of other finan- income taxes 0.1 –0.1 0.2 >100
losses from 
cial liabilities related to liabilties from put options on ncis 
derecognition  deferred  
of loans payable 0.0 –3.6 3.6 > 100 as well as contingent purchase price obligations which were  income taxes 1.3 6.1 –4.8 –78.6
mostly settled in 2017.
foreign 
 currency  
gains/losses 15.1 –27.4 42.5 > 100
result on  
net monetary 
 position 
 (hyperinflation) 3.7 0.0 3.7 n.a.
gains/losses 
from dereco-
gnition of 
equity- 
accounted 
investees  0.0 2.5 –2.5 > 100
result from 
equity- 
accounted 
investees –38.6 –1.6 –37.1 > 100
total –19.9 –73.2 53.4 > 100
133
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
the effective income tax expense/(income) is reconciled  the tax rate of the group is 30.18% and corresponds to the  ltip
as follows: tax rate of delivery hero se. it comprises the tax rate for  terms and conditions
corporation tax inclusive of solidarity surcharge of 15.83%  delivery hero se has issued a new long-term incentive plan 
adjusted  and the trade tax rate of 14.35%. (ltip) during the first half of 2018 consisting of two types 
eur million 2018 2017
of awards: restricted stock plan (rsp) and stock option 
  discontinued operations had a tax income in 2018 of € 12.9  program (sop). eligible participants are the management 
earnings before income taxes –258.8 –324.9
million (previous year: tax income of € 5.4 million) which  board, managing directors of certain subsidiaries and oth-
income tax using the   relates in both years only to their ordinary activities. er members of the management as well as certain employ-
companyʼs domestic tax rate 
  ees. delivery hero commits to award restricted stock units 
(2018: 30.18%; 2017: 30.18%) 78.1 98.0
h. other disclosures (rsus) and stock options based on a certain €-amount per 
adjustments    
year over the period of four years. the award amounts of 
deviations between the 
01. share-based payments each tranche (four in total) are agreed in one award agree-
 companyʼs domestic and 
 foreign tax rates –15.4 –7.3 the dh group has been operating share-based payment  ment the participant receives in year one. 
programs since 2011. the beneficiaries of the share-based 
non-deductible  
operating expenses –11.1 –29.7 payment programs are mainly members of management  on a yearly recurring basis a number of rsus and stock 
tax-exempt income 8.5 2.6 bodies of the dh group. options to which each participant is eligible to is fixed by 
dividing the corresponding award amount by fair market 
tax effects from adding and 
deducting for local taxes –0.4 –1.3 during the reporting period a new share-based long term  value of one rsu equal to 30-days average dh share price 
incentive program (“ltip”) was initiated. prior to the respective date or by fair market value of one 
effects from partnerships –0.1 –0.1
stock option whereby the strike price of each option is 
effects from the non- 
recognition of deferred   determined based on the 3-months average price per share 
tax assets on tax loss  before the corresponding contractual grant date. 
 carryforwards –62.0 –54.5
effects from the non- 
recognition of deferred  
tax assets on temporary 
 differences 0.0 –4.7
previous-period deferred 
income taxes 0.0 2.1
previous-period current 
income taxes 0.5 0.2
effects from  
consolidation measures 0.0 5.9
effects of equity- 
accounted investees –11.8 –0.4
effects of goodwill 
 impairment –1.3 –1.0
permanent differences –3.6 –16.9
other tax effects 0.3 –0.4
income tax expense/(income) –18.3 –7.5
134
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
each award vests quarterly over one year after the contrac- reconciliation of outstanding options and rsu
tual grant date. the first award is subject to the 24 months  2018
cliff. a bad leaver loses all vested and unvested awards.   number   weighted  average   number  
a good leaver retains all vested rsus and stock options.   of options  exercise price of rsu
a bad leaver loses all vested and unvested awards. a good   
leaver retains all vested rsus. sop contains a revenue-  outstanding as of january 1  –  –  – 
based performance target. granted during the year1 954,760  41.64  152,390 
forfeited during the year  13,677  38.46  3,344 
the awards will be settled in shares. even though delivery  
exercised during the year  –  n.a. –
hero has the right to settle in cash equal to the fair value of 
outstanding at december 31  941,083  41.69  149,046 
the shares on the settlement date, dh does not intend to 
exercisable at december 31 –  n.a. –
exercise this right.
1  reflects number of options and shares fixed at the reporting date.
measurement of fair values
the grant date fair value of the awards is a contractually  the options outstanding at december 31, 2018 had a strike  for a cash settlement by the group. however, the occur-
fixed €-value of the award amounts. the grant date fair  price in ranging from € 38.30 to € 44.89 (previous year:  rence of such an event is currently considered unlikely. 
value of the awards subject to performance targets was  n.a.) and a weighted-average remaining contractual life of 
not reduced because there was no realistic possibility that  67.6 months (previous year: n.a.). measurement of fair values
the performance target would not be achieved. in 2018 no additional awards were granted.
the newly established plan contributed € 10.8 million of 
expenses in 2018. the grant date fair value of the dh sop awards was deter-
mined on the date of reclassification from cash-settled to 
dh sop equity settled share-based payment awards on may 29, 
terms and conditions 2017 (see prior year notes to the consolidated financial 
the beneficiaries of dh sop received option rights, enti- statements) using an option pricing model (black-scholes 
tling them to subscribe for shares in delivery hero se sub- model). the key inputs used in the measurement of the 
ject to certain conditions. the awards vest gradually over  fair value were as follows: share price of € 23.39, volatility 
a period of up to 48 months subject to individual cliff pro- of 36.21%, exercise price of € 1 to € 18, weighted average 
visions of generally 12 to 24 months. if a beneficiary leaves  expected life of 37 months, and a risk-free interest rate of 
the company before completing the vesting requirements,  0.0%. the expected volatility was derived by applying a 
the individual forfeits its rights under the program.  standard peer group. the share price was derived from the 
naspers financing round that took place in may 2017. the 
the group plans to settle by means of equity instruments  measurement resulted in the weighted average fair value 
and classifies the program as an equity-settled share-based  of € 13 per option.
payment arrangement. in the event of certain exit events 
(e.g. a change of control), the program conditions provide 
135
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
reconciliation of outstanding share options
2018 2017
weighted  weighted   
number of   average   number of   average  
options  exercise price options  exercise price
 
outstanding as of jan. 1 9,704,500 11.13  8,211,000 7.41 
forfeited/cancelled  
during the year –904,527 14.88  –799,725 14.72 
granted during the year – – 2,539,125 12.95 
exercised during the year1 –2,019,201 6.85  –245,900 5.46 
outstanding at dec. 31 6,780,772 11.91  9,704,500 11.13 
exercisable at dec. 31 – – 70,000 3.51 
1  the weighted average share price on the date of exercise of these options within the two exercise windows were € 38.55 and € 38,64. 
beneficiaries of the dh sop were able to exercise their  virtual share program 2017 measurement of fair values
equity settled rights within two exercise windows in 2018,  terms and conditions in 2018 wurden keine neuen anteile gewährt.
which led to capital increases of the subscribed capital of  in 2017 delivery hero granted virtual share options to 
€ 1.9 million and an increase of the capital reserve of  employees under the virtual share program (vsp 2017) which  the grant date fair value was determined using an option 
€ 10.3 million. the weighted average share price on the  entitle the beneficiaries to a compensation based on the  pricing model (black-scholes model). the key inputs used 
date of exercise of the exercised options was € 38.55 and  appreciation in dh ag shares over strike price as specified  in the measurement of the fair value were as follows: share 
€ 38.64 respectively. in individual contracts, subject to certain conditions. under  price on grant dates in q4 2017, volatility of 44%, weight-
the terms of the vsp, the group has an option to settle in  ed average strike price of € 16.88, weighted average expect-
the range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the  equity instruments or in cash. the group plans to settle by  ed life of 36 months, and a risk-free interest rate of 0.0%. 
end of the year was € 1 to € 18 (previous year: € 1 to € 18).  means of equity instruments and classifies the program as  expected volatility was derived by applying a standard peer 
an equity-settled share-based payment arrangement.  group. the measurement resulted in the weighted average 
the weighted average remaining contractual life for the  fair value of € 12.65 per option.
share options outstanding as of 31 december 2018 was 38  the awards vest gradually over a period of 48 months, sub-
months (previous year: 41 months). ject to individual cliff provisions of 12 to 24 months. if a ben-
eficiary leaves the company before completing the vesting 
total expense for the period was € 4.5 million in 2018 (pre- requirements, the individual forfeits his/her rights under 
vious year: € 64.9 million). the program.
136
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
reconciliation of outstanding options
2018 2017 
weighted  weighted   
number of   average   number of   average  
options  exercise price options  exercise price
outstanding as of january 1 258,600  16.88  – –
forfeited during the year –18,000  16.67  – –
granted during the year – – 258,600  16.88 
exercised during the year – – – –
outstanding at december 31 240,600  16.90  258,600  16.88 
exercisable at december 31 –  –  – – 
the options outstanding at december 31, 2018 had a strike  the program includes two tranches. the vesting period  02. financial instruments
price in ranging from € 16.67 to € 17.67 (previous year:  for tranche 1 is up to december 31, 2018, and the vesting 
€ 16.67 to € 17.67) and a weighted-average remaining con- period for tranche 2 up to december 31, 2019. the vested  a)  fair value disclosures
tractual life of 51 months (previous year: 61 months). purchase rights can be exercised between december 31,  the tables below show the carrying amounts and fair val-
2019, and march 31, 2020, and will expire after this time  ues of financial assets and financial liabilities, including 
total expense for the period is € 2.2 million in 2018 (previ- period.  their levels in the fair value hierarchy. 
ous year: € 0.5 million)
total expense for the period is € 0.7 million in 2018 (pre- the following abbreviations are used for the measurement 
other share-based compensation arrangements vious year: € 0.8 million). categories:
e-food greece share-based compensation arrangements settled   —  faaac: financial assets at amortized cost
on may 2, 2015 ecommerce business 10 s.à r.l. granted the  in 2018 —  flaac: financial liability at amortized cost
senior executives of ofd online delivery services ltd (ofd)  in 2018 the cash-settled rgp korea share-based payments  —   fvtpl: financial instruments at fair value through 
options for shares in ofd. the option program allows  awards were exercised, which led to a € 12.8 million reduc- profit or loss
senior executives to participate in the performance of ofd.  tion of other provisions (current). —  lar: loans and receivables (before ifrs 9 adoption)
the option program is accounted for as an equity-settled  —  afs: available-for-sale (before ifrs 9 adoption)
share-based payment arrangement. 
137
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
dec. 31, 2018
measured at  
measured at amortized cost fair value
classification  carrying   fair   carrying   fair value   
eur million  pursuant to ias 39  amount value amount hierarchy  total 
 
non-current financial assets
investments fvtpl 43.4 3 43.4
loans granted faaac 2.9 2.9 0 3 2.9
security deposits faaac 3.5 3.5 0 3 3.5
other financial assets   6.4   43.4 49.8
 
current financial assets            
receivables against payment service providers faaac 30.5 n.a.   n.a. 30.5
trade receivables faaac 20.6 n.a.   n.a. 20.6
other receivables faaac 34.0 n.a.   n.a. 34.0
trade and other receivables   85.1       85.1
cash and cash equivalents   364.1 n.a.   n.a. 364.1
total financial assets   455.6 43.4 498.9
 
non-current financial liabilities            
trade payables flaac 1.6 1.6 3 1.6
finance lease payables n.a.1 1.1 1.1 3 1.1
security deposits received flaac 0.6 0.6 3 0.6
contingent purchase price obligations fvtpl 5.3 3 5.3
trade and other payables   3.3 5.3 8.6
 
current financial liabilities          
trade payables flaac 58.6 n.a. n.a. 58.6
finance lease payables n.a.1 1.3 n.a. n.a. 1.3
security deposits received flaac 0.9 n.a. n.a. 0.9
other payables flaac 105.6 n.a. n.a. 105.6
contingent purchase price obligations fvtpl 5.5 3 5.5
trade and other payables   166.5 5.5 172.0
total financial liabilities   169.8 10.8 180.6
1 classification and measurements of finance lease payables meet the requirements of ias 17 leases.
138
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
dec. 31, 2017
measured at  
measured at amortized cost fair value
classification  carrying   fair   carrying   fair value   
eur million  pursuant to ias 39  amount value amount hierarchy  total 
 
non-current financial assets
investments afs 28.8 n.a.   n.a. 28.8
loans granted lar 1.8 1.8   3 1.8
security deposits lar 0.8 0.8   3 0.8
other financial assets   31.4   –   31.4
 
current financial assets            
receivables against payment service providers lar 37.0 n.a.   n.a. 37.0
trade receivables lar 36.7 n.a.   n.a. 36.7
other receivables lar 15.1 n.a.   n.a. 15.1
trade and other receivables   88.8   –   88.8
cash and cash equivalents   627.3 n.a. –   627.3
total financial assets   747.5   –   747.5
 
non-current financial liabilities            
trade payables flaac 0.1 0.1   3 0.1
finance lease payables n.a.1 2.4 2.4   3 2.4
security deposits received faaac 0.4 0.4   3 0.4
trade and other payables   2.8 2.8  –   2.8
 
current financial liabilities          
trade payables flaac 49.2 n.a.   n.a. 49.2
finance lease payables n.a.1 1.3 n.a.   n.a. 1.3
security deposits received flaac 0.7 n.a.   n.a. 0.7
financial liabilities from put option on nci flaac 2.6 2.6   3 2.6
other payables flaac 81.3 n.a.   n.a. 81.3
trade payables and other financial liabilities   135.1 – 135.1
total financial liabilities   137.9 – 137.9
1 classification and measurements of finance lease payables follows the requirements of ias 17 leases.
139
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
the fair value is not disclosed for some current financial  the fair values of contingent purchase price obligations  net income (loss) by measurement category
assets and current financial liabilities, because their carry- resulting from business combinations are estimated tak- the net gains and losses recognized for individual mea-
ing amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value  ing into account the underlying contingency as agreed  surement categories are as follows: 
due to their short-term nature. the fair values of some  with the seller in a particular busi-ness combination.    2018 2017  
eur million (ifrs 9) (ias 39)
non-current financial assets approximate their carrying 
amount because there were no significant changes in the  the sensitivity of the fair values to the inputs into the val-  
faaac – n.a.
measurement inputs, since their fair value was determined  uation techniques is discussed under price risk in market 
upon initial recognition.  risk section below. lar n.a. –
flaac – –14.2
at the reporting date, the fair value of the investments did  there are no separable embedded derivatives as of the  afs n.a. –
not materially change since these instruments were initial- reporting date. in previous periods, the fair value of the 
fvtpl (assets) –1.5 –0.3
ly recognized either because they were recently acquired  separable embedded derivatives was determined using an 
fvtpl (liabilities) – –1.1
or, in case of equity investments, because there is no suf- option pricing model.
fvtpl (liabilities) – designated – –30.8
ficient and more recent information available.
the reconciliation of level 3 instruments measured at fair  total –1.5 –46.4
level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value value is as follows:
total gains and losses from the change in level 3 instru-
ments measured at fair value are recognized in other finan- assets liabilities
cial result.  separated  separated  contingent  liability from 
  embedded  embedded   purchase price  put option on 
eur million investments   derivatives  derivatives obligations nci
in determining the fair values of the investments, “prior 
sale of company stock” method, and discounted cash flows   
as of jan. 01, 2017 1.0 –12.8 21.0 –
techniques are applied. the prior sale of company stock 
additions 0.0 – – 20.9
method considers any prior armʼs length sales of the equi-
ty securities. the discounted cash flows technique consid- disposals –0.7 –11.7 –30.8 –44.1
ers the present value of expected payments, discounted  gains/losses recorded in profit or loss –0.3 1.1 –9.8 –23.2
using a risk-adjusted discount rate.  as of dec. 31, 2017 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
reclassified upon adoption of ifrs 9 28.8      
additions 16.1   10.8  
disposals        
gains/losses recorded in profit or loss –1.5      
as of dec. 31, 2018 43.4 – – 10.8 –
the loss on the remeasurement of the investments  
in the reporting period is entirely attributable to foreign 
currency effects.
140
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
gains and losses related to faaac and lar (before adap- in the prior period, changes in liabilities arising from 
tion of ifrs 9) measurement categories exclude impair- financing activities were as follows:
ment losses and interest income. the net result of the 
flaac measurement category includes gains and losses  liabilities  trade and  finance   
eur million to banks 1 other payables 1 lease liabilities total
on derecognition as well as remeasurements of the carry-
ing amounts due to changes in future estimated cash   
restated balance at jan. 1, 2017 115.4 243.6 4.6 363.6
flows.
proceeds from loans and borrowings – 25.0 – 25.0
b) c hanges in liabilities arising from financing activities repayment of borrowings  –118.5 –273.8 – –392.3
changes in liabilities arising from financing activities in  interest paid –2.2 –9.0 0.0 –11.2
the reporting period occured only in relation to finance 
payment of finance lease liabilities – – –1.2 –1.2
lease liabilities as follows:
total changes from financing cash flows –120.7 –257.7 –1.2 –379.6
 
  finance lease 
liability related changes
eur million liabilities
new finance leases – – 0.2 0.2
 
balance at jan. 1, 2018 3.7 interest expense 5.0 11.8 0.0 16.8
payment of finance lease liabilities –1.2 fair value changes related to embedded derivatives 0.3 –1.1 –0.8
total changes from financing cash flows –1.2 loss on derecognition – 3.6 – 3.6
  balance at dec. 31, 2017 – – 3.7 3.7
liability related changes  
1 the carrying amount includes separated embedded derivatives.
new finance leases 0.0
interest expense –0.1
c) risk management credit risk
balance at dec. 31, 2018 2.4
the dh group is exposed to credit risk, liquidity risk and  the credit or default risk is the risk that the business part-
market risk. dh group actively monitors these risks and  ners are unable to fulfill their payment obliga-tions. as in 
manages them using a risk management system. the risk  the previous year, such risks mainly relate to current trade 
management function is exercised in the governance,  receivables from a broad base of customers, mainly restau-
risk & compliance (grc) department. rants. the dh group is not exposed to a major default risk 
from any single customer. the dh group monitors the 
default risk and, as in the previous year, manages it  actively 
by making any necessary credit checks and by optimizing 
the payment process. 
141
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
the maximum default risk corresponds to the carrying  the provision matrix is calculated based on the actual cred- amounts derecognized of € 15.7 million in the current year 
amount of the financial assets. the group does not require  it loss experience that takes into account the historical  are due to the implementation of the new policy on tran-
collateral with respect to its financial assets. experience as well the current economic conditions. the  sition to ifrs 9. trade receivables are derecognized if they 
expected losses in relation to trade receivables from large  are more than 120 days past due, have been fully provid-
as of december 31, 2018, the group held € 364.1 million  multinational chain restaurants is estimated to be 0.6%  ed for (in the current year and previous years) and for 
(previous year: € 627.3 million) as cash and cash equiva- based on their credit ratings of at least bbb+.  which there is no reasonable expectation of recovery.
lents mainly at banks. in addition, the group held 
€ 37.5 million deposits and other similar receivables (pre- the movement in the allowance account for impairment 
vious year: € 15.9 million) with financial institutions. most  in respect of trade receivables was as follows:
of these balances are held with banks which are rated a+ 
to bbb+.  allowance account 
 
eur million
furthermore, dh group cooperates with known online 
payment providers, such as mastercard, paypal and ayden.   
jan 1, 2018 under ias 39 –14.0
the receivables from online payment providers amounted 
to € 30.5 million at december 31, 2018 (previous period:  adjustment on initial application of ifrs 9 –0.1
€ 37.0 million). they are short-term and carried very low  jan 1, 2018 under ifrs 9  –14.1
credit risk at the reporting date. therefore the expected  amounts derecognized 15.7
losses on all these balances are considered immaterial at 
amounts resulting from discontinued 
the reporting date. moreover, the expected losses on the   operations 1.0
loans granted in the amount of € 2.9 million (previous year  net remeasurement of allowance account –4.3
€ 1.8 million) are immaterial. 
dec. 31, 2018 under ifrs 9 –1.7
the group determines the expected credit losses for its 
trade receivables from restaurants as follows:
large multi-  past due as of the reporting date (in days)
carrying  national 
eur million amount chains current < 30 30 - 60 61 - 90 > 90
 
gross carrying amount 22.3 2.5 12.9 3.1 1.6 1.1 1.2
weighted average loss rate   0.6% 2% 5% 12% 41% 50%
loss allowance –1.7 0.0 –0.3 –0.2 –0.2 –0.4 –0.6
142
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
the aging of trade receivables in the prior period was  
as follows:
thereof neither  thereof past due as of the reporting date, but not impaired (in days) 
eur  carrying  past due 
million amount nor impaired < 30 30 – 60 61 – 90 91 – 120 > 120
 
as of dec. 31, 2017  
trade receivables 36.7 28.2 4.6 1.9 1.2 0.4 0.5 
the movement in the allowance account for trade receiv- the following table presents contractual (undiscounted) 
ables in the prior period was as follows: interest and principal payments for the dh groupʼs finan-
cial liabilities. the maturity is based on the contractual 
allowance account  payment terms.
  type of liability
eur million contractual cash flow
  carrying 
  eur million amount total < 1 1 – 5 > 5
jan. 1, 2017 –9.3
 
net remeasurement of allowance   as of dec. 31, 2018          
account (including effects of operations 
classified as discountinued operations) –4.7 trade payables 60.2 60.2 58.6 1.6 0.0
dec. 31, 2017 –14.0 other payables 105.7 105.7 105.7 0.0 0.0
contingent purchase price obligations  10.8 10.8 5.5 5.3 0.0
security deposits received 1.5 1.5 0.9 0.2 0.4
all other financial assets in the prior period were consid-
ered as neither past due nor impaired and therefore no  total 178.2 178.2 164.3 1.6 0.4
impairments were recognized for these financial assets in   
accordance with ias 39. as of dec. 31, 2017          
trade payables 49.3 49.3 49.2 0.1 0.0
liquidity risk  other payables 81.3 81.3 81.3 0.0 0.0
liquidity risk is the risk of being unable to meet the pay-
financial liabilities from put option on nci 2.6 2.6 2.6 0.0 0.0
ment obligations resulting from financial liablities, which 
security deposits received 1.1 1.1 0.7 0.4 0.0
may arise from unavailability of funds. the exposure to 
total 134.3 134.3 133.8 0.5 0.0
liquidity risk is closely monitored on group level using  daily 
liquidity reports and regular cash forecast reports to 
ensure adequate distribution of funds and early identifi-
cation of additional funding needs. 
143
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
market risk  price risk in prior years cash and cash equivalents, net debt and 
group entities are exposed to market risks such as  currency  price risk in the group arises on investments and contin- debt to equity ratio was considered as key performance 
risk and price risk.  gent purchase price obligations measured at fair value  indicators. since all external debt was repaid post-ipo in 
through profit or loss as a result of changes in interest rates,  2017 the metrics monitored were amended. the current 
currency risk equity prices and contingencies.  capital management strategy, including policies and pro-
currency risk arises in particular with regard to intercom- cesses of capital management focuses on the monitoring 
pany receivables and payables denominated in foreign cur- as of december 31, 2018, the effect on the profit or loss in  of cash and cash equivalents. further, external financing 
rency. the following table shows the effects on profit or  response to changes in the inputs into the fair value mea- is monitored, however, as of december 2018 no debt from 
loss that would result if the foreign currencies had appre- surements would be as follows: (+) means a positive effect  external financing existed.
ciated or depreciated by 10% as of the reporting date. on profit or loss and (–) means a negative effect on profit 
or loss. cash and cash equivalents as at the respective financial 
changes year-end are included in the table below:
dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017 contin- interest  equity 
 
gencies rates price
eur million +10% –10% +10% –10%  
eur million +/–10% +/–100bp +/–10%     
 
eur million dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017
usd-eur –23.0 23.0 0.2 –0.2  
investments  n.a.  –0.7/+0.9 +3.6/–2.6  
eur-krw 9.7 –9.7 7.7 –7.7
total cash position 364.1 627.3
contingent purchase price 
eur-try –4.5 4.5 –2.8 2.8
obligation –0.1/+1.1 +0.1/–0.1 n.a.
kwd-sar 4.5 –4.5 0.9 –0.9
prior yearʼs key performance indicators monitored were 
kwd-aed 3.9 –3.9 0.1 –0.1
at the prior reporting date, there were no instruments  as follows:
sar-bhd –3.5 3.5 0.0 0.0 measured at fair value.
eur-sgd 3.4 –3.4 0.4 –0.4  
eur million dec. 31, 2017
eur-kwd 2.7 –2.7 0.1 –0.1 03. capital management
for the purpose of dh groupʼs capital management,  capital   
eur-twd 1.5 –1.5 0.0 0.0
cash and cash equivalents –627.3
includes subscribed capital, capital reserves and all  other 
bhd-aed 1.3 –1.3 0.0 0.0
equity reserves attributable to the owners of the parent.  current and  
qar-kwd 1.2 –1.2 0.0 0.0 non-current  liabilities 313.5
the primary objective of dh groupʼs capital management 
eur-myr 1.1 –1.1 0.0 0.0 is to safeguard the groupʼs ability to continue as a going  net debt –313.8
eur-pkr 1.0 –1.0 0.5 –0.5 concern in order to finance the growth strategy and to  equity 1,720.8
eur-php 1.0 –1.0 0.7 –0.7 reduce the cost of capital of the group.  debt to equity (%) –18.2%
eur-gbp 0.0 0.0 3.2 –3.2
144
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
04. earnings per share weighted-average number of ordinary shares (basic)
basic earnings per share were calculated based on the net      
thousands of shares 2018 2017
loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the 
weighted- average number of ordinary shares outstanding   
issued ordinary shares  
(in thousands). prior year figures for the shares include the 
at jan. 1 157,734  139,113 
effect of the share split at a ratio of 1:300, which was car-
effect of treasury  
ried out in the second quarter of 2017.
shares held –60 –960
change
effect of shares issued  
2018 2017 absolute % for the year 28,495 19,581 
  weighted-average  
consolidated loss for the period   number of ordinary  
from continuing  operations eur million –277.1 –332.4 55.3 –16.6 shares at dec. 31 186,169  157,734 
loss from continuing operations  
attributable to non-controlling interests eur million –4.0 –2.9 –1.1 37.9
loss from continuing operations   the following equity instruments were not taken into 
attributable to shareholders eur million –273.1 –329.5 56.4 –17.1
account in determining the diluted earnings per share 
number in  because their effect would have been antidilutive. 
weighted average number of shares issued thousands 186,169  157,734  28,435  18.0 
diluted and basic earnings per share from  
number of potential ordinary shares
continuing operations eur –1.47 –2.09 0.62 –29.8
    
loss from discontinued operations eur million 234.8 –15.7 250.5 > 100 thousands dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017
consolidated loss for the period from    
continuing and discontinued operations   share-based payments 7,561  11,040 
attributable to shareholders  eur million –38.3 –345.2 306.9 –88.9
liabilities from  
number in  put option on nci – 79
weighted average number of shares issued thousands 186,169  157,734  28,435  18.0 
total number of potential 
dilutes and basic earnings per share from   ordinary shares 7,561  11,119 
discontinued operations eur 1.26 –0.10 1.36 >100
diluted and basic earnings per share from  
continued and discontinued operations  eur –0.21 –2.19 1.98 –90.6
145
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
05. disclosures on the cost of sales method 07. total fee for the auditor 08. related party disclosures
the dh group classifies expenses by their function referred  the auditorʼs fees for services provided by the group audi-
to as the cost of sales method. in 2018 these expenses  tor are broken down by service as follows: the members of the management board and the supervi-
include: expenses for salaries and wages of € 346.3 million     sory board were considered as related parties of delivery  
eur million 2018 2017
(previous year: € 292.0 million), expenses for social securi-  hero se in accordance with ias 24. 
ty of € 39.6 million (previous year: € 28.2 million), expenses   
audit services 2.0 3.0
for defined benefit plans as well as pension plans of  a) members of the management board
€ 4.1 million (previous year: € 6.8 million) and expenses for  other audit services 0.0 0.5
depreciation and amortization of € 53.2 mio. € in 2018 (pre- tax advisory services 0.0 0.2 management board occupation
vious year:€ 50.3 million). other services 0.0 0.4 niklas östberg chief executive officer
total 2.0 4.0 emmanuel thomassin  chief financial officer 
06. headcount
the dh group employs an average of 19,834 people in their 
continured and discontinued operations in the current  in 2018 the fees for audit services include services for the 
financial year (previous year: 12,336 employees). the distri- previous year of € 0.3 million.
bution by employee groups can be derived from the follow-
ing: audit services are provided for the audit of the consolidat-
ed financial statements and statutory financial statements 
average number of employees by group of delivery hero se and for the audit of financial statements 
   of subsidiaries in germany. integrated with the audit pro-
2018 2017
cedures reviews of interim financial statements as well as 
  analyses of selected components of the compliance man-
delivery and food processing 12,400 7,007
agement systems were performed. furthermore, audit ser-
sales 4,697 2,885 vices provided pursuant to the german transformation act 
marketing 549 503 are included.
business support 208 24
tax advisory services amounted to k eur 15 and include 
product development 794 569
consulting services in connection with an audit by the ger-
administration 1,186 1,348
man fiscal authorities and advisory services in connection 
total 19,834 12,336
with social security legislation.
total personnel expenses in 2018 for continued operations  other services in 2018 amounted to k eur 12 and consist 
amount to € 340.0 million (previous year: € 273.1 million)  of advisory services in connection with the general data 
and discontinued operation amounted to € 45.9 million  protection regulation and a workshop on legal require-
(previous year: € 47.1 million). ments in hr.
146
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
b) members of the supervisory board  the stock options granted to current related parties are as 
follows:
name  occupation other functions
dr. martin enderle  managing director of  egmont foundation (member of the board of trustees), measurement date
chairman  allmyhomes gmbh cewe stiftung & co. kgaa (member of the board of trustees),   
digi.me gmbh (managing director), dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017 1,2
chaconne gmbh (managing director),
 
feegoo invest ug (managing director)
no. of shares owed 1,391,334 1,236,600
patrick kolek group chief operating   makemytrip ltd (member of the board of directors)
deputy chairman officer of naspers limited no. of vested shares  1,238,141 1,147,909
fair value (eur million) 21.5 19.7
hilary gosher managing director of   parity partners, llc (member of the board of directors),
expenses recognized  
insight venture partners llc hustle, inc. (member of the board of directors)
(eur million) 1.8 9.2
björn ljungberg  employee at dh group
1  until the transformation of the company into a german stock  
vera stachowiak  employee at dh group
corporation in may 2017, key management personal were members of the 
semih yalcin employee at dh group management, members of the advisory board and members of the c-level. 
2  information reflects information for the twelve months period ended 
december 31, 2017 for the members of the management board. to the 
members of the supervisory board no stock options were granted   
in connection with the change on the legal form from  a german stock corporation (aktiengesellschaft), the mem-
delivery hero ag to delivery hero se the company reached  bers of the c-level management were also considered as 
an agreement with its employee representatives on co-  key management personnel. correspondingly the remu- d) other related party transactions
determination. this agreement was followed by the per- neration of the c-level management is included in the com- other related party transactions comprise exchanges  
sonnel nomination of three employees to be members of  parison information until that date. of dh group with related entities, primarily associated 
the supervisory board. as of july 13, 2018 björn ljungberg,  companies and entities controlled by key management 
vera stachowiak and semih yalcin became members of  the remuneration of the management board and the  personnel.
the supervisory board.  supervisory board in 2018 is as follows:
   as of december 31, 2018 receivables and liabilities to o ther 
eur million 2018 2017
in this context jonathan green, jeffrey lieberman, georg  related parties are composed as follows:
graf von waldersee and janis zech left the supervisory 
short-term employee benefits 1.0 1.0
board on july 13, 2018.
expenses related to  
share-based compensation 1 1.8 12.6
in connection with the closing of the sale of the german 
business, semih yalcin left as a member of the super visory  1 for details see following illustration.
board and christian hardenberg became member of the 
supervisory board. in 2018 the total remuneration of the management board 
amounts to € 0.7 million. the total remuneration of the 
a) key management personnel transactions supervisory board in 2018 amounts to € 0.3 million includ-
te members of the management board and the members  ing the salary of employee representatives within the super-
of the supervisory board represent key management per- visory board.
sonnel. until may 2017, the time of the transformation into 
147
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
  
eur million dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017 future minimum lease payments from operating lease  future cumulative obligations from other agreements 
agreements, with the respective remaining terms, are  amount to € 8.3 million as of december 31, 2018 (previous 
 
financing committment   presented in the following table: year: € 3.2 million). the other agreements primarily relate 
to associates – 1.0 to the provision of hosting, advertising and similar ser-
receivables from     remaining term in years vices.
related  entities 0.2 0.2 eur million < 1 1 - 5 > 5 total   
eur million dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017
receivables from associates 0.4 0.1  
liabilities to related entities – 0.1 as of dec. 31,   
2018 27.5 59.7 13.1 100.4 less than one year 2.8 3.2
liabilities to associates 0.3 –
as of dec. 31,  more than one year and  
2017 15.0 37.2 15.3 67.5 less than five years 5.4 0.0
more than five years – –
the result from transactions with other related parties   the expense for lease payments in the 2018 financial year  total 8.3 3.2
is composed as follows: amounted to € 24.4 million (previous year: € 12.7 million). 
  in addition payments for subleases of € 0.3 million (previ-
eur million 2018 2017
ous year: € 0.2 million) were received in 2017. the leases 
  for the office premises in berlin and korea grant a one-time 
income from transactions 
contractual renewal option for further five years.
from related entities 0.6 3.0
expenses from transactions 
the finance leases of the group primarily relate to office 
with related entities 0.0 0.8
and operating equipment and with a net carrying amount 
of € 2.6 million as of december 31, 2018 (previous year: 
income from transactions with related entities is mainly  € 3.3 million).
attributable to services which are provided to the former 
brazilian subsidiary pedidos ja divulgacao e tecnologia ltda.  future minimum   present value of minimum  
lease payments interest lease payments
which was sold to ifood in august 2018. dh group recog-  
nized a total gain of € 2.0 million from this sale. eur million dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2017
 
09. l ease relations and other financial obligations less than one year 1.4 1.4 0.1 0.1 1.3 1.3
the group entered into a number of office lease agree- more than one year and  
less than five years 1.2 2.5 0.1 0.1 1.1 2.4
ments, including a new lease in korea and various other 
locations as well as vehicle and office equipment lease  more than five years –  –  –  –  –  – 
agreements classified as operating leases. subtotal 2.6 3.9 0.2 0.2 2.4 3.7
148
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
10. l ist of shareholdings pursuant to section 313  
of the german commercial code (hgb)
dh has an interest in the following fully consolidated com-
panies as of december 31, 2018:
share of   share of   share of   share of  
  capitals as of   capitals as of     capitals as of   capitals as of  
name and registered office   dec. 31, 2018  functional   dec. 31, 2017   name and registered office   dec. 31, 2018  functional   dec. 31, 2017  
of the affiliated company (%) currency (%) of the affiliated company (%) currency (%)
  delivery hero (thailand) ug 
germany:   (haftungsbeschränkt) & co. kg 
brillant 1421. gmbh   (formerly jade 1343 gmbh & co.  
(holding cee/cis), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00 verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero (hong kong) ug   delivery hero austria gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
(haftungsbeschränkt) & co. kg  
delivery hero bulgaria ug  
(formerly jade 1343 gmbh & co.  
(haftungsbeschränkt) & co. kg  
15. verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
(formerly brillant 1424 gmbh & co. 
delivery hero (india) ug   15. verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
(haftungsbeschränkt) & co. kg  
delivery hero germany gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
(formerly jade 1343 gmbh & co.  
siebte verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00 delivery hero local 
verwaltungs gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero (malaysia) ug  
(haftungsbeschränkt) & co. kg   delivery hero payments gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur
(formerly foodpanda gp ug  
foodora gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
(haftungsbeschränkt) & co. jade 1343. 
dritte verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00 foodora services germany gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur
delivery hero (pakistan) ug   foodpanda gmbh (holding asia), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
(haftungsbeschränkt) & co. kg  
foodpanda gp ug 
(formerly jade 1343 gmbh & co.  
(haftungsbeschränkt), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
neunte verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
jade 1343 gmbh & co. 
delivery hero (philippines) ug 
10. verwaltungs kg, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
 (haftungsbeschränkt) & co. kg  
(formerly jade 1343 gmbh & co. 13.   juwel 199. vv ug 
verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00 (haftungsbeschränkt), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero (singapore) ug   juwel 220. vv ug 
(haftungsbeschränkt) & co. kg   (haftungsbeschränkt), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
(formerly jade 1343 gmbh & co.  
rgp local holding i gmbh, berlin1 100.00 eur 100.00
fünfte verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
rgp local holding iv gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 90.76
delivery hero (taiwan) ug  
(haftungsbeschränkt) & co. kg   rgp trust gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
(formerly jade 1343 gmbh & co.  
valk fleet deutschland gmbh 
zweite verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
(formerly rushy logistik), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
149
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
share of   share of   share of   share of  
  capitals as of   capitals as of     capitals as of   capitals as of  
name and registered office   dec. 31, 2018  functional   dec. 31, 2017   name and registered office   dec. 31, 2018  functional   dec. 31, 2017  
of the affiliated company (%) currency (%) of the affiliated company (%) currency (%)
valk fleet holding gmbh & co. kg, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00 dámejídlo.cz. logistiks s.r.o. (formerly 
valk fleet s.r.o.), prague (cz) 100.00 czk 100.00
valk fleet verwaltungs gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
deliveras s.a., athens, (gr) 100.00 eur
 
international:   delivery hero fz-llc, dubai (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00
appetit o veinticuatro ltda., san jose (cr) 100.00 crc 100.00
delivery hero india holding s.a.r.l. ,  
aravo s.a., montevideo (uy) 100.00 uyu 100.00 luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur
baedaltong co. ltd., seoul (kr) 100.00 krw 100.00 delivery hero korea  
carriage delivery services llc,   (formerly rgp korea ltd.), seoul (kr) 100.00 krw 100.00
abu dhabi (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00 delivery hero sweden ab (formerly 
carriage food delivery services llc,  online pizza norden ab), stockholm (se) 100.00 sek 100.00
dubai (uae) 100.00 aed dhe logistics malaysia sdn. bhd,  
carriage holding company ltd.,   kuala lumpur (mys) 100.00 myk
abu dhabi (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00 dhh i spc (difc) ltd., dubai (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00
carriage ksa llc (formerly   dhh ii spc (difc) ltd., dubai (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00
establishment of abdullah al  
mutawa (ksa)), kuwait (kw) 100.00 sar 100.00 donesi d.o.o., banja luka (bih) 100.00 bam 100.00
carriage logistics general trading   donesi d.o.o., podgorica (mne) 100.00 eur 100.00
company llc, kuwait (kw) 100.00 kwd 100.00 eatoye (pvt) limited, karachi (pk) 100.00 pkr 100.00
carriage logistics spc, manama (bh) 100.00 bhd 100.00 ecommerce business 10 s.à. r.l.,  
carriage trading & services co. wll,   luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
doha (qa) 100.00 bhd 100.00 emerging markets online food delivery 
click delivery cyprus limited, nikosia (cy) 100.00 qar 100.00 holding s.à.r.l., luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
click delivery digital processing of  euró magyarország kft., budapest (hu) 100.00 huf
telematics data 100.00 eur 100.00 fly & company inc., seoul (kr) 100.00 krw 100.00
societe anonyme, athens (gr) 100.00 eur 100.00 food basket elektronik i̇letişim gı 
clickdelivery s.a.c, lima (pe) 100.00 pen 100.00 da ticaret ltd. şti, nikosia (cyprus) 100.00 try 100.00
clickdelivery s.a.s., bogota (co) 100.00 cop 100.00 food delivery holding 12. s.à r.l.,  
luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
cloud treats romania sa,  
cluj-napoca (rou) 100.00 ron food delivery holding 15. s.à.r.l.,  
luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
damejidlo cz. s.r.o. (formerly  
e-aggregator s.r.o.), prague (cz) 100.00 czk 100.00 food delivery holding 20. s.à r.l.,  
luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
150
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
share of   share of   share of   share of  
  capitals as of   capitals as of     capitals as of   capitals as of  
name and registered office   dec. 31, 2018  functional   dec. 31, 2017   name and registered office   dec. 31, 2018  functional   dec. 31, 2017  
of the affiliated company (%) currency (%) of the affiliated company (%) currency (%)
food delivery holding 21. s.à r.l.,   inversiones cmr s.a.s, bogota (co) 100.00 cop 100.00
luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
inversiones delivery hero cmr s.a.  
food delivery holding 5. s.à r.l.,   (formerly hellofood hallo essen  
luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00 hollesen s.a.), quito (ec) 100.00 usd 100.00
food panda philippines inc., makati (phl) 100.00 php 100.00 lokanta net elektronik i̇letişim  
gıda ticaret a.ş., istanbul (tr) 100.00 try 100.00
foodonclick.com/jordan private  
shareholding company, amman (jr) 100.00 jod 100.00 luxemburg investment company  
43 s.à r.l., luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
foodonclick-com fz-llc, dubai (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00
maidan limited, hong kong (hk) 100.00 hkd 100.00
foodora ab, stockholm (se) 100.00 sek 100.00
mjam gmbh, vienna (at) 100.00 eur 100.00
foodora finland oy (formerly r-sc  
internet services finland oy) helsinki, (fi) 100.00 eur 100.00 mobile venture latin america inc.,  
panama (pa) 100.00 usd 100.00
foodora france sas, paris (fra) 100.00 eur 100.00
motwer s.a., montevideo (ury) 100.00 uyu
foodora inc. (canada), toronto (can) 100.00 cad 100.00
ofd online food delivery services ltd., 
foodora norway as, oslo (nor) 100.00 nok 100.00
nicosia (cy) 100.00 eur 100.00
foodpanda (b) sdn bhd, bandar seri  
otlob for restaurants reservations  
begawan (brn) 100.00 bnd 100.00
services s.a.e, cairo (egy) 100.00 egp 100.00
foodpanda bangladesh ltd., dhaka (bgd) 100.00 bdt 100.00
ozon media d.o.o., zagreb (hr) 100.00 hrk 100.00
foodpanda bulgaria eood, sofia (brg) 100.00 bgn 100.00
pagos ya s.a., buenos aires (ar) 100.00 ars 100.00
foodpanda co. ltd., bangkok (tha) 100.00 thb 100.00
pedidos ya paraguay s.a., asunción (py) 100.00 pyg
foodpanda hk ltd., hong kong (hk) 100.00 hkd 100.00
pedidosya s.a. (formerly kinboy s.a.), 
foodpanda malaysia sdn. bhd.,   montevideo (uy) 100.00 usd 100.00
kuala lumpur (msy) 100.00 myr 100.00
pedidosya s.a., buenos aires (ar) 100.00 ars 100.00
foodpanda ro srl, bucharest (ro) 100.00 ron 100.00
pedidosya servicios s.a.,  
foodpanda singapore pte. ltd.   santa cruz de la sierra (bol) 100.00 bob
singapore (sgp) 100.00 sgd 100.00
pedidosya spa, santiago (cl) 100.00 clp 100.00
foodpanda taiwan co. ltd.,  
plotun d.o.o., krusevac (srb) 100.00 rsd 100.00
daan dist taipei (twn) 100.00 twd 100.00
ranila online services limited,  
go delivery sa, attica (gr) 100.00 eur
new delhi (ind) 100.00 inr
hungerstation llc, dammam (ksa) 63.00 sar 63.00
repartos ya s.a, buenos aires (ar) 100.00 ars 100.00
hungerstation spc ltd., dubai (uae) 63.00 aed 63.00
151
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
share of   share of  
  capitals as of   capitals as of  
name and registered office   dec. 31, 2018  functional   dec. 31, 2017  
of the affiliated company (%) currency (%)
repartos ya s.a, montevideo, (uy) 100.00 uyu 100.00
rocket food limited, sheung wan (hk) 100.00 hkd 100.00
r-sc internet services pakistan (pvt)  
limited, karachi (pk) 100.00 pkr 100.00
slm finland oy, vantaa (fi) 100.00 eur 100.00
subdelivery ltda., são paulo (br) 100.00 brl 100.00
talabat electronic and delivery services 
llc. (formerly talabat electronic  
services company l.l.c.), muscat (om) 100.00 omr 100.00
talabat general trading & contracting 
company w.l.l, sharq (kw) 100.00 kwd 100.00
talabat logistics & online management 
llc, amman, (jr) 100.00 jod
talabat ltd., kuwait (kw) 100.00 kwd
talabat middle east internet services 
company l.l.c, dubai (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00
talabat qfc llc, doha (qa) 100.00 qar 100.00
talabat restaurants company l.l.c., 
riyadh (ksa) 100.00 sar 100.00
talabat services company l.l.c.,  
doha (qa) 100.00 qar 100.00
viala kft, budapest (hu) 100.00 huf 100.00
volo ds xxxvi 9 gmbh (formerly  
cm foratis 12 vv gmbh), vienna (at) 100.00 eur 100.00
volo netherlands b.v., amsterdam (nl) 100.00 eur 100.00
yemek sepeti (dubai) b.v., amsterdam (nl) 100.00 eur 100.00
yemek sepeti elektronik i̇letişim tanıtım 
pazarlama gıda sanayi ve ticaret a.ş., 
istanbul (tr) 100.00 try 100.00
yogiyo media company ltd., seoul (kr) 100.00 krw 100.00
1  the consolidation of this company has been waived, since their inclusion would be of minor significance  
for the presentation of the groupʼs financial position and results of operations.
152
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2018
the following companies were included as associates in  the acquisition will add approx. 1.2 million monthly orders  the objective of the collar transaction is to provide pro-
the dh consolidated financial statements: and approx. $ 2 million monthly revenue to delivery   tection on approximately one third of the shares delivery  
heroʼs mena business and will strengthen its leadership  hero received in takeaway.com. the equity collar will also 
name and registered office   share of capitals position in the uae. the acquisition was fully funded by  allow delivery hero to participate in part of any further 
of the associated company 2018 (%)
an acquisition facility. on april 1, 2019 the facility was  fully  share price appreciation of this portion of the takeaway.
restaurant partner polska sp. z.o.o. (pl) 49.0 repaid. com shareholding. delivery hero has elected for cash 
sweetheart kitchen operations gmbh (de) 40.0 settle ment of the collar over time by default.
hungry holding aps (dk) 24.5 moreover, delivery hero participated in zomatoʼs latest 
funding round by investing $ 50.0 million into zomatoʼs  to facilitate the transaction, morgan stanley will sell up 
rappi inc. (co) 19.52
global business to become a top 10 shareholder and also  to 3 million of such shares in takeaway.com through an 
glovoapp23 s.l. (es) 15.95
entered into a material operational partnership agreement. accelerated bookbuild offering which will start immedi-
ately. the cash raised from the equity collar will be 
11. corporate governance code on april 1, 2019 the sale of delivery heroʼs german food  released to delivery hero to allow for increased strategic 
the management and supervisory boards of delivery   delivery operations to takeaway.com was concluded. the  flexibility for opportunistic m&a transactions. delivery  
hero se have issued a statement of conformity pursuant  total consideration delivery hero has received amounts to  hero has committed to a 90-day lock-up with respect to 
to the german corporate governance code (section 161 of  (i) approx. 5.7 million ordinary shares in takeaway.com, (ii)  additional takeaway.com shares following the pricing of 
the german stock corporation act [aktg]), which was pub- approx. 3.8 million warrants convertible into ordinary  the offering.
lished on the website of delivery hero se in december 2018  shares of takeaway.com at zero cost and (iii) approx. 
(https://ir.deliveryhero.com/websites/delivery/english/  € 508 million of cash. the total consideration (subject to  berlin, april 23, 2019
4500/declaration-of-compliance.html). customary price adjustments) at time of closing amounts 
to € 1.15 billion. the total consideration is net of cash, i.e.  delivery hero se
i. subsequent events delivery hero keeps the net cash position of its german 
food delivery operations. post exercise of the warrants, 
on february 28, 2019 delivery hero group announced that  the share component represents c. 15.5% of the total issued 
it entered into an agreement with zomato media pvt. ltd.  and outstanding share capital of takeaway.com. as of 
(“zomato”) to buy its food delivery business in the united  december 31, 2018 the german operations are classified 
arab emirates (uae) through its fully owned subsidiary tal- as disposal group classified as held for sale (refer to sec-  
abat middle east internet services company llc (“ talabat”).  tion d. 03. e).  
the agreement encompasses the acquisition of restaurant   
contracts as well as the conclusion of a service and license  as a result of the transaction, the mandate of semih  yalcin,   
agreement. the consideration for the acquisition amounts  employee representative in delivery heroʼs super visory  niklas östberg  emmanuel thomassin 
to $ 172.0 million. besides this consideration a contingent  board ended. his successor is christian graf von harden- chief executive officer  chief financial officer
payment depending on the future performance of the busi- berg, chief technology officer of delivery hero.
ness was agreed. the maximum contingent payment 
amounts to $ 44.0 million. on april 4, 2019 the company has decided to enter into a 
multi-year equity collar agreement in relation to 3.2 million 
of its shares in takeaway.com, which it received in connec-
tion with the sale of its german food delivery to takeaway.
com.
153
responsibility statement
annual report 2018
responsibility
statement
we hereby confirm that, to the best of our knowledge and 
in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the 
consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss 
of the group, and the combined management report 
includes a fair review of the groupʼs business development 
including its performance and financial position, and also 
describes significant opportunities and risks relating to 
the groupʼs anticipated development.
berlin, april 23, 2019
delivery hero se
niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin
chair of the management board, ceo member of the management board, cfo
154
independent auditorʼs report 
annual report 2018
independent
auditorʼs report
to delivery hero se (until july 13, 2018: delivery hero ag),  in our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in 
berlin the audit,
report on the audit of the consolidated  —   the accompanying consolidated financial statements 
financial statements and of the combined  comply, in all material respects, with the ifrss as 
management report adopted by the eu, and the additional requirements 
of german commercial law pursuant to section 315e (1) 
opinions hgb [handelsgesetzbuch: german commercial code] 
we have audited the consolidated financial statements of  and, in compliance with these requirements, give a 
delivery hero se (until july 13, 2018: delivery hero ag),  true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, and 
berlin, and its subsidiaries (the group), which comprise  financial position of the group as of december 31, 
the consolidated statement of financial position as of  2018, and of its financial performance for the financial 
december 31, 2018, the consolidated statement of profit or  year from january 1 to december 31, 2018, and 
loss and other comprehensive income, the consolidated  —   the accompanying combined management report as 
statement of changes in equity and the consolidated  a whole provides an appropriate view of the groupʼs 
statement of cashflows for the financial year from january 1  position. in all material respects, this combined 
to december 31, 2018, and notes to the consolidated  management report is consistent with the 
financial statements, including a summary of significant  consolidated financial statements, complies with 
accounting policies. in addition, we have audited the  german legal requirements and appropriately 
combined management report of delivery hero se, berlin,  presents the opportunities and risks of future 
for the financial year from january 1 to december 31, 2018.  development.
pursuant to section 322 (3) sentence 1 hgb, we declare that 
our audit has not led to any reservations relating to the 
legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements 
and of the combined management report.
155
independent auditorʼs report 
annual report 2018
basis for the opinions    impairment of intangible assets arising  impairment testing is complex and based on a range of 
we conducted our audit of the consolidated financial  from acquisitions including goodwill assumptions that require judgment. this includes the 
statements and of the combined management report in  expected business and earnings development of the cgus/
accordance with section 317 hgb and eu audit regulation  for information on impairment of intangible assets arising  groups of cgus for the next five years, the modeling of 
no. 537/2014 (referred to subsequently as “eu audit  from acquisitions including goodwill, please see sections  estimated surplus cashflow in a sustainable status, the 
regulation”) and in compliance with german generally  b. 05. and f. 01. in the notes to the consolidated financial  assumed long-term growth rates and the discount rate 
accepted standards for financial statement audits  statements. used. 
promulgated by the institut der wirtschaftsprüfer [institute 
of public auditors in germany] (idw). our responsibilities  the financial statement risk there is the risk for the financial statements that any 
under those requirements and principles are further  intangible assets arising from acquisitions including  existing impairment of goodwill as of the reporting date 
described in the “auditorʼs responsibilities for the audit of  goodwill (trademarks, customer and supplier relationships,  was not identified. as regards the explanations in the notes 
the consolidated financial statements and of the combined  goodwill) amounted to € 570.4 million as of december 31,  to the consolidated financial statements, there is a risk that 
management report” section of our auditorʼs report. we  2018, which represents 28.4% of total assets and thus a  the explanations are not appropriate.
are independent of the group entities in accordance with  considerable share of asset value.
the requirements of european law and german commercial  our audit approach
and professional law, and we have fulfilled our other  intangible assets are tested for impairment if there are  we evaluated the companyʼs assessment of whether there 
german professional responsibilities in accordance with  indications that their value has declined. as well as this,  were indications of impairment for significant intangible 
these requirements. in addition, in accordance with  cash generating units (cgus)/groups of cgus to which  assets arising from acquisitions.
article 10 (2) (f) of the eu audit regulation, we declare that  goodwill has been allocated are subject to an annual 
we have not provided non-audit services prohibited under  impairment test.  for the purposes of impairment testing of goodwill, we 
article 5 (1) of the eu audit regulation. we believe that the  calculated our own estimates for the cgus/groups of cgus 
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to  to test for impairment, the carrying amount of the  of the delivery hero se group with the involvement of our 
provide a basis for our opinions on the consolidated  respective cgu/group of cgus is compared with the  valuation experts and based on general as well as sector-
financial statements and on the combined management  recoverable amount. if the carrying amount exceeds the  specific market expectations and compared these estimates 
report. recoverable amount, this indicates a requirement for  with the companyʼs measurements. 
impairment. the recoverable amount is the higher of the 
key audit matters in the audit of the consolidated  cgu/group of cguʼs fair value less costs to sell and its value  in addition, we assessed the appropriateness of the 
financial statements in use. the valuation date for the impairment test was  calculation method used by the company and reconciled 
key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional  november 30, 2018. this information with the budget prepared by the 
judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the  management board and approved by the supervisory 
consolidated financial statements for the financial year  based on the impairment tests conducted, the company  board. furthermore, we evaluated the consistency of 
from january 1 to december 31, 2018. these matters were  did not identify any need to recognize impairment losses. assumptions with external market assessments.
addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion 
thereon, we do not provide a separate opinion on these 
matters.
156
independent auditorʼs report 
annual report 2018
we evaluated the accuracy of the previous forecasts by     sale of the food delivery business   our audit approach
comparing the budgets of previous financial years with  in germany we initially assessed whether the classification of the 
actual results and by analyzing deviations.  delivery service business in germany as a discontinued 
please refer to note b. 13. in the notes to the consolidated  operation pursuant to ifrs 5 was appropriate. for this 
since changes to the discount rate can have a significant  financial statements for more information on the accounting  purpose, we spoke with the management board and 
impact on the results of impairment testing, we compared  policies applied. information on the sale of the food delivery  assessed internal and external reporting. furthermore, we 
the assumptions and parameters underlying the discount  business in germany can be found in the notes to the  assessed whether the allocation of assets and liabilities as 
rate, in particular the risk-free rate, the cgu-specific risk  consolidated financial statements in note d. 03. well as income and expenses to the discontinued operation 
premium and the beta coefficient, with our own assumptions  was correct. 
and publicly available data.  the financial statement risk
on december 20, 2018, delivery hero se concluded an  we assessed whether the explanations in the notes to the 
to ensure the computational accuracy of the valuation  agreement on the sale of the delivery service business in  consolidated financial statements regarding the 
model used, we verified the companyʼs calculations on the  germany consisting of the companies delivery hero  discontinued operations are sufficiently detailed and 
basis of selected risk-based elements. germany gmbh and foodora gmbh. the delivery service  appropriate. 
business unit in germany was classified as a discontinued 
finally, we assessed whether the disclosures in the notes  operation.  our observations
on the impairment of intangible assets arising from  the classification of the delivery service business in 
acquisitions including goodwill were appropriate. the classification of the delivery service business unit as a  germany as a discontinued operation pursuant to ifrs 5 
discontinued operation pursuant to ifrs 5 is complex and  and its presentation in the consolidated statement of 
our observations subject to judgment. the presentation and the disclosures  financial position and in the consolidated statement of profit 
the underlying approach to impairment testing of  in the notes to the consolidated financial statements  or loss and other comprehensive income are appropriate. 
intangible assets arising from acquisitions including  concerning the discontinued operation are also complex.  the explanations in the notes to the consolidated financial 
goodwill (including the calculation method) is appropriate  statements regarding the discontinued operations are 
and in line with the accounting policies to be applied. there is the risk to the consolidated financial statements  sufficiently detailed and appropriate.
that the classification of this business unit as a discontinued 
the companyʼs assumptions and parameters used for  operation is not appropriate. in addition, there is the risk  other information
measurement are reasonable overall. that the components (or items) of the discontinued  management is responsible for the other information. the 
operation were not identified appropriately and that  other information comprises the annual report, with the 
the related disclosures in the notes are appropriate. therefore the presentation in the consolidated statement  exception of the audited consolidated financial statements 
of financial position and in the consolidated statement of  and combined management report and our auditorʼs 
profit or loss and other comprehensive income is inaccurate.  report. 
there is the risk that the explanations in the notes to the 
consolidated financial statements regarding the 
discontinued operation are not sufficiently detailed and 
appropriate.
157
independent auditorʼs report 
annual report 2018
our opinion on the consolidated financial statements and  to going concern. in addition, they are responsible for  requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities 
on the combined management report do not cover the  financial reporting based on the going concern basis of  and risks of future development, as well as to issue an 
other information, and consequently we do not express  accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the  auditorʼs report that includes our opinions on the 
an opinion or any other form of assurance conclusion  group or to cease operations, or there is no realistic  consolidated financial statements and on the combined 
thereon.  alternative but to do so. management report.
in connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read  furthermore, management is responsible for the  reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is 
the other information and, in so doing, to consider whether  preparation of the combined management report that, as  not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance 
the other information a whole, provides an appropriate view of the groupʼs  with section 317 hgb and the eu audit regulation and in 
position and is, in all material respects, consistent with the  compliance with german generally accepted standards for 
—   is materially inconsistent with the consolidated  consolidated financial statements, complies with german  financial statement audits promulgated by the institut der 
financial statements, with the combined  legal requirements, and appropriately presents the  wirtschaftsprüfer (idw) will always detect a material 
management report or our knowledge obtained in  opportunities and risks of future development. in addition,  misstatement. misstatements can arise from fraud or error 
the audit, or  management is responsible for such arrangements and  and are considered material if, individually or in the 
—  otherwise appears to be materially misstated.  measures (systems) as they have considered necessary to  aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence 
enable the preparation of a combined management report  the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these 
responsibilities of management and the supervisory  that is in accordance with the applicable german legal  consolidated financial statements and this combined 
board for the consolidated financial statements and  requirements, and to be able to provide sufficient  management report.
the combined management report appropriate evidence for the assertions in the combined 
management is responsible for the preparation of the  management report. we exercise professional judgment and maintain 
consolidated financial statements that comply, in all  professional skepticism throughout the audit. we also:
material respects, with ifrss as adopted by the eu and the  the supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the 
additional requirements of german commercial law  groupʼs financial reporting process for the preparation of  —   identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
pursuant to section 315e (1) hgb and that the consolidated  the consolidated financial statements and of the combined  of the consolidated financial statements and of the 
financial statements, in compliance with these  management report. combined management report, whether due to fraud 
requirements, give a true and fair view of the assets,  or error, design and perform audit procedures 
liabilities, financial position, and financial performance of  auditorʼs responsibilities for the audit of the  responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
the group. in addition, management is responsible for such  consolidated financial statements and of the combined  that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
internal controls as they have determined necessary to  management report for our opinions. the risk of not detecting a material 
enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements  our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about  misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
that are free from material misstatement, whether due to  whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole  one resulting from error, as fraud may involve 
fraud or error. are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud  collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, 
or error, and whether the combined management report  misrepresentations, or the override of internal 
in preparing the consolidated financial statements,  as a whole provides an appropriate view of the groupʼs  controls.
management is responsible for assessing the groupʼs ability  position and, in all material respects, is consistent with the 
to continue as a going concern. they also have the  consolidated financial statements and the knowledge 
responsibility for disclosing, as applicable, matters related  obtained in the audit, complies with the german legal 
158
independent auditorʼs report 
annual report 2018
—   obtain an understanding of internal control relevant  underlying transactions and events in a manner that  we communicate with those charged with governance 
to the audit of the consolidated financial statements,  the consolidated financial statements give a true and  regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
and of the arrangements and measures (systems)  fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position  timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
relevant to the audit of the combined management  and financial performance of the group in  any significant deficiencies in internal controls that we 
report, in order to design audit procedures that are  compliance with ifrss as adopted by the eu and the  identify during our audit.
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the  additional requirements of german commercial law 
purpose of expressing an opinion on the  pursuant to section 315e (1) hgb. we also provide those charged with governance with a 
effectiveness of these systems. —   obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence  statement that we have complied with the relevant 
—   evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies  regarding the financial information of the entities or  independence requirements, and communicate with them 
used by management and the reasonableness of  business activities within the group to express  all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be 
estimates made by management and related  opinions on the consolidated financial statements  thought to bear on our independence, and where 
disclosures. and on the combined management report. we are  applicable, the related safeguards.
—   conclude on the appropriateness of managementʼs  responsible for the direction, supervision and 
use of the going concern basis of accounting and,  performance of the group audit. we remain solely  from the matters communicated with those charged with 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a  responsible for our opinions. governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
material uncertainty exists related to events or  —   evaluate the consistency of the combined  significance in the audit of the consolidated financial 
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the  management report with the consolidated financial  statements of the current period and are therefore the key 
groupʼs ability to continue as a going concern. if we  statements, its conformity with [german] law, and  audit matters. we describe these matters in our auditorʼs 
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are  the view of the groupʼs position it provides. report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure 
required to draw attention in the auditorʼs report to  —   perform audit procedures on the prospective  about the matter.
the related disclosures in the consolidated financial  information presented by management in the 
statements and in the combined management report  combined management report. on the basis of 
or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our  sufficient appropriate audit evidence we evaluate, in 
respective opinions. our conclusions are based on  particular, the significant assumptions used by 
the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our  management as a basis for the prospective 
auditorʼs report. however, future events or conditions  information, and evaluate the proper derivation of 
may cause the group to cease to be able to continue  the prospective information from these assumptions. 
as a going concern. we do not express a separate opinion on the 
—   evaluate the overall presentation, structure and  prospective information and on the assumptions 
content of the consolidated financial statements,  used as a basis. there is a substantial unavoidable 
including the disclosures, and whether the  risk that future events will differ materially from the 
consolidated financial statements present the  prospective information.
159
independent auditorʼs report 
annual report 2018
other legal and regulatory requirements german public auditor responsible  
for the engagement
further information pursuant to article 10 of the  
eu audit regulation the german public auditor responsible for the engagement 
we were elected as group auditor by the annual general  is björn knorr.
meeting of delivery hero se on june 6, 2018. we were 
engaged by the supervisory board on december 5, 2018.  berlin, april 23, 2019
we have been the group auditor of delivery hero se, 
without interruption since financial year 2017.
kpmg ag  
we declare that the opinions expressed in this auditorʼs  wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
report are consistent with the additional report to the audit 
committee pursuant to article 11 of the eu audit regulation 
(long-form audit report).
(signed) knorr   (signed) heidgen 
wirtschaftsprüfer  wirtschaftsprüfer 
[german public auditor]  [german public auditor]
160
gri content index 
annual report 2018
gri content index 
gri standard  disclosure comment page
 
gri 101: foundation 2016
gri 102: general disclosures 2016
 
102-1 name of the organization delivery hero se
102-2 activities, brands, products, and services 57
102-3 location of headquarters berlin
102-4 location of operations 9, 57
102-5 ownership and legal form 16
102-6 markets served 9
102-7 scale of the organization 2, 3, 12 et seq., 67 
102-8 information on employees and other workers 71
102-10 significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 2, 14 et seq.
delivery hero is occasionally engaged in ad-hoc initiatives with other industry  
102-12 external initiatives players to safeguard its interests, e.g. in case of new legislative initiatives.
delivery hero se is a member of one business association which represent  
102-13 membership of associations delivery hero´s interests in various areas of delivery hero´s commercial activities.
102-14 statement from senior decision-maker 46
102-16 values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 51
102-18 governance structure 25-28
consulting stakeholders on economic,  
102-21 environmental, and social topics 50
102-40 list of stakeholder groups 50
102-41 collective bargaining agreements the company has no collective bargaining agreements. 
161
gri content index 
annual report 2018
gri standard  disclosure comment page
 
102-42 identifying and selecting stakeholders 50
102-43 approach to stakeholder engagement 50
102-44 key topics and concerns raised 50
102-45 entities included in the consolidated financial statements 107
102-46 defining report content and topic boundaries 47-49
102-47 list of material topics 48
102-48 restatements of information 48
102-49 changes in reporting 48
102-50 reporting period january 1, 2018 – december 31, 2018
102-51 date of most recent report april 26, 2018 
102-52 reporting cycle annually
102-53 contact point for questions regarding the report ir@deliveryhero.com
102-54 claims of reporting in accordance with the gri standards 47
102-55 gri content index 161-163
102-56 external assurance our nonfinancial report has not been externally audited.
162
gri content index 
annual report 2018
gri standard  disclosure comment page
gri 301: materials 2016
103-1/ 
103-2/103-3 management approach 52
gri 305: emissions 2016   
103-1/ 
103-2/103-3 management approach 55
gri 401: employment 2016     
103-1/ 
103-2/103-3 management approach 53
gri 403: occupational health and safety 2018     
103-1/ 
103-2/103-3 management approach 54
gri 405: diversity and equal opportunity 2016     
103-1/ 
103-2/103-3 management approach
405-1 diversity of governance bodies and employees 53
gri 418: customer privacy 2016    29, 53
103-1/ 
103-2/103-3 management approach 51 et seq.
163
ffuurrtthheerr  iinnffoorrmmaattiioonn  
aannnnuuaall  rreeppoorrtt  22001188
further  
information
financial calendar page 165
imprint page 165
disclaimer page 167
164
further information 
annual report 2018
financial calendar
2019 annual general meeting     jun 12, 2019
half-year 2019 report       sep 4, 2019
q3/9m 2019 quarterly statement    nov 7, 2019
imprint imprint
delivery hero se press  investor relations 
oranienburger strasse 70 delivery hero se delivery hero se
10117 berlin oranienburger strasse 70 oranienburger strasse 70
phone: +49 (0)30 5444 59 024 10117 berlin 10117 berlin
e-mail: ir@deliveryhero.com
hrb 187081 b1 e-mail: info@deliveryhero.com e-mail: ir@deliveryhero.com
165
further information 
annual report 2018
make your own experience 
linkedin.com/company/delivery-hero
xing.com/companies/deliveryherose
facebook.com/deliveryhero
instagram.com/deliveryhero
twitter.com/deliveryherocom
www.deliveryhero.com
166
further information 
annual report 2018
disclaimer
this information also contains forward-looking statements. these statements are 
based on the current view, expectations and assumptions of the management of 
delivery hero se (“delivery hero”). such statements are subject to known and 
unknown risks and uncertainties that are beyond delivery heroʼs control or accurate 
estimates, such as the future market environment and the economic, legal and 
regulatory framework, the conduct of the realization of expected synergy effects, 
as well as measures by public authoroties. if any of these or other uncertainties 
and imponderables materialize, or if the assumtpions on which these statements 
are based proven to be incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those 
expressed or implied by such statements. delivery hero does not warrant or assume 
any liability that the future develipment and future actual results will be consistent 
with the assumptions and estimates expressed in this report. delivery hero does 
not intend or assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements  
to reflect events or developments after the date of this report, except as required 
by law. 
167
always delivering amazing experiences.
oranienburger strasse 70
10117 berlin
germany
phone: +49 (0)30 5444 59 000
e-mail: info@deliveryhero.com
www.deliveryhero.com