
always  
delivering  
an amazing  
experience
annual report 2019
at a glance
annual report 2019
delivery hero 
at a glance
group orders1 +80% 
to 666 million
369 666 
orders (million) 
2018 2019
4,454 7,435
gmv2 (eur million)
2018 2019
687 1,456
segment revenues1, 2 (eur million)
letter from the ceo  4
2018 2019
our clear vision  6
–431 –100
report of the supervisory board  16
adj. ebitda (eur million) 
corporate governance  22 2019 2018
non-financial statement for the group  46
combined management report  58
consolidated financial statements  88
responsibility statement  154
independent auditor’s report  155
gri content index  161
further information  164 1  the reported pro forma figures have been retrospectively adjusted for divestments of foodora non-core assets, i.e., australia, france, italy, netherlands  
and germany. the strategic partnership with woowa is not reflected in the figures until the closing of the transaction, expected to be in h2 2020.
2  india revenues were € 7.4 million in q1 2018, € 7.1 million for q2 2018, and € 3.9 million for q3 2018 and € 0.7 million for q4 2018. numbers have not been 
 adjusted for smaller acquisitions or divestments. 
oant  aa  gmliassniocen 
annual report 2019
europe orders +42%  asia orders +173% 
to 85 million to 227 million
60  85  83 227 
orders (million)  orders (million) 
2018 2019 2018 2019
735  1,047 1,214 2,358
gmv (eur million) gmv (eur million)
2018 2019 2018 2019
116 173 193 455
revenues (eur million) revenues (eur million)
2018 2019 2018 2019
–19 –15 –312 –52
adj. ebitda (eur million)  adj. ebitda (eur million) 
2019 2018 2019 2018
mena orders +57%  americas orders +53% 
to 299 million to 55 million
191 299  36  55 
orders (million)  orders (million) 
2018 2019 2018 2019
2,100 3,477 406 554
gmv (eur million) gmv (eur million)
2018 2019 2018 2019
316  717 62 110
revenues (eur million) revenues (eur million)
2018 2019 2018 2019
18 43 –143 –51
adj. ebitda (eur million)  adj. ebitda (eur million) 
2018 2019 2019 2018
3
letter from the ceo
annual report 2019
letter from  
the ceo
fellow shareholders and heroes,
 
we had an incredible last year! our business grew orders 
by more than 80% to 666 million, processed € 7.4 billion 
of gmv and generated € 1,456 million in revenue. our 
growth accelerated throughout the year and our market 
share increased in every region compared to every 
competitor in the markets we operate. more importantly, 
we made enormous improvements in technology and 
talent development. the success of 2019 is the result of 
years of focus into customer experience and company 
culture. when we started back in 2011, we were a pure 
marketplace business but moved into logistics already in 
2014; in 2018 we entered new verticals and most recently 
kitchens and instant delivery of groceries from our central 
warehouses. all this ties back to our vision of delivering 
an amazing experience – fast and easy to the door. 
4
letotenr  afr momis stihoen c eo
annual report 2019
pioneers of   as of january 2020, we have over 500,000 contracted  and the founder bongjin kim joining our family of 
a new era:   restaurants on our platform, our delivery fleet delivers  entrepreneurs. this partnership enables us to expand 
from ecommerce to  food in less than 28 minutes on average and below  our leader ship in asia, where we can benefit from the 
quickcommerce 15 minutes for our instant grocery area. as the world has  in-depth regional expertise and entrepreneurial spirit of 
evolved from commerce to ecommerce, we have now  their management. i am truly excited about what we can 
entered the new era of quickcommerce. today, l believe  build together.
we are one of the global leaders in this fairly new 
category. to be able to operate this category profitably,  together as a group of founders there is still a lot we are 
an enormous amount of work and technology has been  striving to achieve. i am convinced we are only in the 
developed. everything from inventory management,  early days of this fascinating journey. there are unlimited 
rider operations and also ai solutions for routing,  opportunities where we can innovate for our customers, 
mapping, dynamic pricing, area optimization, time  delivering an amazing experience – fast and easy to 
estimations, forecasting and customer personalization  the door. our responsibility goes beyond our customers 
to mention only a few. and employees, we will keep on innovating to make life 
better for our riders, merchants and the wider society. 
in terms of corporate development, the sale of our  last year we made many improvements across these 
 german operations at the beginning of 2019 enabled us  areas. i am particularly proud of our sustainability 
to redistribute our resources and strengthen our global  initiative to reduce and offset our carbon emissions. after 
presence. we focused on strengthening our position in  making the headquarters in berlin co  neutral in 2019, 
2
mena and invest more into growth markets where we  we went one step further and offset all european 
believe we can gain leadership over the next 5–10 years.  operations for 2019. by 2021, we aim to be co  neutral 
2
today, we operate in 44 countries at large scale, being  globally.
the fastest-growing listed online delivery company. the   
accelerator for this fast expansion has been the asia  lastly, i would like to thank all of our employees for their 
segment where we nearly tripled our orders from  incredibly hard work and commitment to our customers. 
83 million to 227 million in 2019. much of the success  it is because of you we have come this far. it is also 
can be attributed to the combination of centralized  because of your dedication that i love coming to work 
technology, marketing and other services supported by  every day. keep aiming higher, deliver solutions, and 
the local founders and their high-performing teams. don’t forget, we are heroes because we care.
with that in mind, i am particularly delighted about the  yours,
announced strategic partnership with woowa brothers  niklas östberg
5
our clear vision
annual report 2019
our clear 
vision
 our successful business performance has continued to be the result of our strong 
 vision and unwavering focus on providing an amazing experience, fast, easy and to 
your door. we continually invest to improve our food and restaurant selection, but 
throughout 2019 we also focused on expanding a more holistic ordering service.  
as a result, 2019 saw us expand many new features and additional products, driving 
trends we saw developing in the delivery sector. this continuous focus on innovation 
will ensure that we are able to provide our customers with the most convenient, 
personalized ordering experience.
we are particularly proud to hold innovation at the core of our culture, as it is our  
key strength when it comes to tackling the market opportunity. our vision to always 
deliver amazing experiences, is driven by continuous and unparalleled investment  
into customer experience.
6
europe oourn  cal emairs vsiiosionn 
 
annual report 2019
14 
countries
106 mill.  more than 96%
total 
population of gmv generated on seven regional platforms
69%
urban 
population 
austria/bosnia and herzegovina/
bulgaria/croatia/cyprus/ 
czech republic/finland/greece/ 
hungary/montenegro/norway/ 
romania/serbia/sweden
americas mena asia
9  9  12 
countries countries countries
183 mill.  248 mill.  771 mill. 
total  total  total 
population population population
80% 66%
46%
urban  urban 
population  population  urban 
population 
argentina/bolivia/canada/chile/colombia/  bahrain/jordan/egypt/kuwait/oman/ 
dominican republic/panama/paraguay/ qatar/saudi arabia/uae/turkey 
bangladesh/cambodia/hong kong/
uruguay
laos/malaysia/myanmar/pakistan/
philippines/south korea/singapore/
taiwan/thailand 
the world factbook 2020. washington, dc: central intelligence agency, 2020.
footprint as per december 31, 2019.
7
our clear vision
annual report 2019
choice
expanded  
restaurant  
coverage 
our customers crave variety, so we aim to ensure that  
we can offer multiple restaurants and cuisine types in every 
neighborhood – from international chains to local favorites –  
to cater to different individual preferences.
8
our clear vision
annual report 2019
500,000
listed restaurants
by operating a hybrid delivery platform – meaning operating as a marketplace as 
well as having own-delivery capabilities – delivery hero ensures the best quantity, 
quality and choice to the consumer. as of january 2020, we achieved the important 
milestone of 500,000 active restaurants listed across our platforms. this makes 
delivery hero the global leader in online food delivery, with the biggest restaurant 
network globally outside of china. 
the vast number of restaurants offer our customers an amazing array of cuisine 
types to satisfy their tastes. moreover, providing delivery services increases the 
number of potential customers served by high-demand restaurants, allowing us to 
rollout delivery in neighborhoods with higher order density. with only approx. 
4.6% of orders generated by any single brand, we continue to provide a diversified 
portfolio of restaurants. 
numerous cloud restaurants operating globally and the continued rollout of virtual 
restaurants provides better quality food with reduced delivery times at lower costs. 
by offering quality food in better packaging, specifically designed for delivery, these 
concepts allow us to lever our operational expertise and achieve more efficient cost 
structures. a good initial traction has been noted given the benefits brought to 
customers and restaurants. this has led delivery hero to further invest into virtual 
restaurants in the fourth quarter of 2019. 
9
our clear vision
annual report 2019
speed
faster & more  
reliable delivery 
services 
we strive to provide a fast and more reliable service to our customers with real- 
time updates. therefore, delivery hero tightly manages all steps in the food delivery 
life cycle, including transmission, delivery and post-order services. we are deeply 
integrated with the operations of our restaurant partners, which allows us to learn  
the cooking times of their dishes and make sure the food is ready exactly at the  
time the delivery rider arrives at the restaurant, all to improve speed, reliability and 
food quality. 
we work to improve the delivery experience for our customers by providing vendors 
with our restaurant partner solution, built on proprietary technology. the innovative 
solution allows for better management of the delivery process for restaurants while 
improving efficiency of our own delivery operations. furthermore, we ensure full 
transparency to our customers by providing live tracking or constant status updates, 
which has been further improved in accuracy in 2019. 
10
our clear vision
annual report 2019
< 28 min.
average delivery time
in q4 2019
as per q4 2019 45% of orders were delivered via our proprietary techno-
logy solution “hurrier”, reaching an important milestone of 1 million 
delivery orders per day. with improved logistic efficiencies we decreased 
delivery time to below 28 minutes in q4 2019, with even faster execution 
in dense areas. improved unit economics, that in some markets (i.e.,  
ksa) are even exceeding those of marketplace orders, is the result of 
significant investment as well as numerous years building and refining 
our delivery technology and restaurant operations. we clearly expect to 
see improving unit economics in a range of markets throughout 2020. 
1111
our clear vision
annual report 2019
seamless order experience
improved product 
and technology  
experience
we are passionate about taking our  customers’ ordering experience to the next level. 
each day we focus on simplifying and personalizing our product, so that we can 
 continually move closer to the point where we know exactly what each customer 
wants, when they want it. our data-driven approach has led to 22 billion data points 
being processed in december 2019.
in 2019 we continued to focus on key product improvements. this included inspiring 
customers with a simple ordering process, more visualization during the discovery 
 process by adding  delicious food images, the ability to search at dish level, increasingly 
personalized restaurant recommendations, a wide variety of payment options and a 
convenient reorder facility. subtle feature improvements that resulted in increased 
order frequency.
12
oourn  cal emairs vsiiosionn 
annual report 2019
22 billion
data points processed
in december 2019
one area of significant investment has been our p roprietary 
 delivery area technology, which besides from defining the delivery 
areas also provides real-time optimization and detailed delivery 
time estimates. our own time estimates have been so accurate 
that in 2019 we have been replacing delivery time  estimates with 
custom-built machine-learning algorithms based on proprietary 
data. we have also  significantly invested in an optimized rider 
scheduling tool to continuously balance supply and demand while 
providing our riders with the maximum possible flexibility. our 
 proprietary algorithm estimates vendor prepara tion times based 
on the day of the week, the time of the day and the size of the 
order to match the time the food is  ready with the time our rider 
gets to the restaurant, in order to improve the food quality by 
reducing the time the food stays in the bag.
 we are not affiliated, associated, authorized, endorsed by or in any way officially connected  
with the companies and trademarks shown in the above picture.
13
our clear vision
annual report 2019
new occasions
adding high- 
frequency 
 products 
29 countries
offering multi-verticals
one of our major focuses in 2019 was the expansion of our product offering  
and securing our status as a third-generation delivery company. developments in 
proprietary technology and executional capabilities allowed us to expand into   
multi-vertical offerings in multiple markets, this includes products from groceries, 
pharmacies, flower stores and other convenience articles. throughout 2019 we rolled 
out multi-vertical delivery platforms in 29 countries. during 2019, multi-verticals 
surpassed the threshold of 1m orders per month. given the good initial traction, 
delivery hero has invested into the expansion of dmart1 across mena and asia.  
by the end of 2019, 51 dmart were present in turkey, kuwait, ksa, uae and qatar  
and the first dmart had launched in singapore and taiwan. the advanced rollout  
of dmart and kitchens during q4 2019 encouraged the re-evaluation of the reporting 
structure, from 2020 reporting will include an additional segment: “integrated 
verticals.” 
1  retail or distribution center intended exclusively for online purchases.
14
our clear vision
annual report 2019
 we are not affiliated, associated, authorized, endorsed by, or in any way officially connected with the companies and trademarks shown in the above picture.
15
report of the  supervisory board 
annual report 2019
report of the 
 supervisory board
dear shareholders,
the financial year 2019 was a significant and successful 
year for delivery hero se (the “company”). thanks to 
 consistent strong growth, the delivery hero group has 
developed a leading, global market position, with the 
group now taking over 210 million orders per quarter. 
 particularly noteworthy was the conclusion of an agree-
ment to acquire shares in the south korean woowa broth-
ers corp., which is an impressive milestone for the com-
pany.
composition of the supervisory board
the delivery hero se supervisory board is comprised of six 
members and is represented by three shareholder 
 representatives and three employee representatives. the 
supervisory board’s employee representatives were 
selected by the employees’ special negotiation body.
16
report of the  supervisory board 
annual report 2019
cooperation between management and  key decisions, including those on risk position, risk man- in the conference call on february 19, 2019 and two con-
 supervisory boards agement and compliance, at regular intervals and also,  ference calls on february 20, 2019 the supervisory board 
the supervisory board duly and carefully complied with  when necessary, at short notice.  dealt with the exercised options within the framework of 
the duties and recommendations imposed on it by law, the  the employee long-term incentive program and approved 
articles of association, the rules of procedure and the  during the financial year 2019, the supervisory board held  the respective capital increases. 
 german corporate governance code in the version dated  five meetings, sixteen conference calls, as well as one infor-
february 7, 2017 and published by the federal gazette on  matory call. the supervisory board adopted six resolutions  the supervisory board approved an adjustment of the man-
april 24, 2017. the supervisory board was at all times com- in circulation procedure.  agement board remuneration in the conference call on 
prehensively involved in management board affairs and  march 13, 2019. furthermore, the supervisory board 
decisions of key importance to the company from an early  mr. patrick kolek and mrs. hilary gosher were each unable  adopted an amendment of the budget for the financial year 
stage. the management board regularly reported to the  to take part in one conference call, but submitted their  2019.
supervisory board extensively on the position, strategic  votes in writing. mr. patrick kolek and mr. christian graf 
planning, intended business policy and key transactions of  von harden berg were unable to attend one meeting in  in the conference call on april 3, 2019, the supervisory 
the company and group; such reporting took place in writ-  person and mrs. hilary gosher was unable to attend two  board dealt with and approved the collar transaction with 
ing and orally. in the same vein, it gave its opinion on key  meetings in person but participated in these meetings by  regards to 3.2 million shares in takeaway.com n.v.
issues pertaining to risk positions, risk management, finan- conference call. mr. patrick kolek was unable to take part 
cials, investment and staff planning, as well as corporate  in one informatory conference call. all other members of  the supervisory board addressed the key risk areas of risk 
gover nance, compliance, the course of business and prof- the supervisory board attended all meetings and confer- and compliance management in the mena region in the 
itability. where decisions required the approval of the  ence calls during their term of office.  conference call on april 12, 2019.
super visory board, the management board explained and 
discussed the relevant measures and transactions with the  meetings and essential resolutions of the   
supervisory board prior to making these decisions. discus- delivery hero se supervisory board
sions took place during meetings of the full supervisory  during the meeting on february 5, 2019, the supervisory 
board and its committees, which were also held by confer- board dealt in particular with the trading update for q1 
ence call. the supervisory board and relevant committees  2019 and approved the opening of an exercise window for 
also met without the management board’s presence, where  the employee participation program. furthermore, the 
applicable. the chairs of the supervisory board and audit  supervisory board approved the acquisition of the food 
committee were also in regular contact with the chair of  delivery business of zomato media pvt. ltd. in the united 
the management board and the chief financial officer out- arab emirates.
side of meetings so as to discuss current developments and 
17
report of the  supervisory board 
annual report 2019
in the balance sheet meeting on april 23, 2019, the super- in three conference calls on may 21, 2019, the supervisory  in the conference call on october 29, 2019, the supervisory 
visory board examined the annual and consolidated finan- board dealt with the exercised options within the frame- board dealt with the quarterly statement for q3 2019.
cial statements, including the group management report  work of the employee long-term incentive program and 
for the financial year 2018, and discussed them in detail  approved the respective capital increases.  in the meeting on november 6, 2019, the supervisory board 
with the auditors kpmg ag wirtschaftsprüfungsgesell- addressed, in addition to the results of the self-efficiency 
schaft, berlin (“kpmg”). the auditor reported on the major  in the meeting on june 12, 2019, subsequent to the annual  assessment of the supervisory board (which was carried 
audit findings. in addition, the supervisory board exam- general meeting, the supervisory board reelected  out by the european center for board efficiency (ecbe)), 
ined the non-financial statement for the group and  mr.  patrick kolek as deputy chairman of the supervisory  the internal audit plan for the financial year 2020, the sta-
approved the supervisory board report and discussed the  board and addressed in particular the retention and the  tus and results of the governance risk and compliance 
draft agenda for the annual general meeting 2019. in accor- personal development of the employees in the delivery hero  plan 2019 as well as current data protection and anti-trust 
dance with the recommendation of the audit committee,  group as well as the returns of marketing investments.  law. furthermore, the supervisory board dealt with the 
the supervisory board approved the annual financial state- further rollout of the dark stores within the delivery hero 
ments, the consolidated financial statements and the group  in the conference call on july 26, 2019, the supervisory  group as well as with the conclusion of an agreement to 
management report for 2018. thus, the annual financial  board addressed the trading update for the half-year report  acquire shares in the south korean woowa brothers corp. 
statements were adopted. the supervisory board also  2019, in addition to the implementation and development  and the incorporation of a joint venture with the investors 
acknowledged and agreed to the declaration of indepen- of the compliance system in the subsidiaries of the  and the management of woowa brothers corp.
dence from kpmg and thus was of the opinion that the  delivery hero group.
independence of the auditor was not endangered. further,  in the conference call on december 4, 2019 and in the 
the supervisory board dealt in detail with the risk and com- in the meeting on september 3, 2019, the supervisory   conference call on december 6, 2019, as well as in an infor-
pliance management in the mena region.  board dealt in particular with the half-year report 2019.  matory call on december 10, 2019, the supervisory board 
furthermore, the supervisory board approved the sale of  discussed in detail the conclusion of the agreement to 
3 million shares takeaway.com n.v. and discussed the  acquire shares in the south korean woowa brothers corp. 
 technical, product and logistics capability roadmap for the  as well as the incorporation of a joint venture. 
delivery hero group. 
18
report of the  supervisory board 
annual report 2019
in the conference call on december 11, 2019, the super- efficient work of the supervisory board’s  furthermore, the audit committee considered the require-
visory board adopted the budget for the financial year  committees ment for non-financial reporting (csr – directive) and the 
2020 and dealt with the independence of each member of  the supervisory board constituted four committees in accor- separate non-financial statement for the group. in addi-
the supervisory board. moreover, the supervisory board  dance with the advice of the german corporate governance  tion, the audit committee dealt with the independence of 
adopted the declaration of compliance for the financial  code, namely, an audit committee, remuneration commit- the auditor and approved kpmg to render non-audit ser-
year 2019.  tee, nomination committee and strategy  committee to  vices. similarly, the audit committee was involved in the 
 discharge its duties in a duly manner. each committee  preparation of the supervisory board’s proposal to the 
during two conference calls on december 13, 2019, the   consists of three members. the chairs of each committee  2019 annual general meeting for the appointment of an 
supervisory board approved the conclusion of the agree- regularly reported on the content and result of their  auditor for the annual and consolidated financial state-
ment to acquire shares in the south korean woowa   meetings to the full supervisory board in the subsequent  ments. 
 brothers corp. and the incorporation of a joint venture  supervisory board meeting. 
together with the respective  capital increase. with mr. patrick kolek as chair of the audit committee, 
the audit committee held four meetings and one circular  the audit committee, in line with section 100(5) and 107(4) 
certain management board transactions and measures  resolution during the financial year 2019. during these meet- of the german stock corporation act (aktiengesetz, aktg), 
require prior approval from the supervisory board on  ings, the audit committee regularly focused on accounting  possesses an independent member who has the required 
account of statutory provisions or specifications in the  structures and processes, internal control, internal auditing,  level of expertise in accounting or auditing as well as 
management board’s rules of procedure. the supervisory  risk management and compliance, and discussed measures   special knowledge and experience in the application of 
board gave its approval to the agenda of the annual  with the auditor kpmg and the management board to  accounting principles and internal control procedures. all 
 general meeting 2019, various capital increases that were  strengthen them further. kpmg participated in all audit  members were present during all meetings and phone calls.
implemented as part of the employee participation  committee meetings.  further, the audit committee dealt 
 program, and approved the amendment of the manage- comprehensively with the annual and consolidated finan- during the financial year 2019, the remuneration commit-
ment board contracts. moreover, the supervisory board  cial statements, including the group management report  tee held one informatory call. the main focus was the 
approved by resolution in writing the mandate of  for the financial year 2018, and  discussed the results of the  adjustment of the remuneration of the management board. 
 emmanuel thomassin as a member of the supervisory  audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements  mrs. vera stachowiak was not able to take part in the infor-
board of an external company as well as a settlement  with the auditor. in addition, the audit committee dis- matory call. for further information regarding manage-
agreement in relation to claims pursuant to the investment  cussed, reviewed and agreed to the half-year financial report  ment board remuneration, reference is made to the 
agreement for the foodpanda group.  and the quarterly statements.  remuneration report. all other members participated in 
the informatory phone call.
19
report of the  supervisory board 
annual report 2019
the nomination committee, which is made up of share- audit and finalization of the annual financial  there were no objections to raise following the super-
holder representatives exclusively, held no meetings  statement, approval of the consolidated  visory board’s final audit result. in accordance with the 
during the financial year 2019. financial statements  recommendation of the audit committee, the supervisory 
the management board forwarded to the members of the  board approved the annual and consolidated financial 
the strategy committee of delivery hero held three  audit committee and supervisory board the annual and  statements for 2019, the combined management report 
 meetings and one conference call during the financial year  consolidated financial statements for 2019, the 2019  for delivery hero se and the group and the combined 
2019. the committee focused mainly on potential com-  combined management report for delivery hero se and   separate non-financial report. thus the annual financial 
pany acquisitions as well as a long-term succession plan  the group (the “annual report documents”) and the  statements are adopted.
for the management board and other managers, and the   combined separate non-financial report immediately after 
collar transaction with regards to 3.2 million shares in  they were set up. the auditor kpmg audited the annual  board matters
 takeaway.com n.v. ms. hilary gosher was unable to attend  financial statement for delivery hero se and the consoli- the supervisory board consists of dr. martin enderle (chair 
one meeting in person but participated in this meeting by  dated financial statements as well as the 2019 combined  of the supervisory board), mr. patrick kolek (deputy chair) 
phone. all other members were present at all further  management report for delivery hero se and the group,  and ms. hilary gosher as shareholder representatives. the 
 meetings and phone calls.  and certified it unconditionally. the annual report  employee representatives on the supervisory board are 
 documents and the audit findings of the auditor kpmg  mrs. vera stachowiak, mr. björn ljungberg and mr. c hristian 
corporate governance were examined in detail in the presence of kpmg during  graf von hardenberg. mr. semih yalcin left the supervisory 
the supervisory board discussed various matters in rela- the audit committee’s meeting and the supervisory board’s  board of delivery hero se effective april 1, 2019. as a sub-
tion to corporate governance and, together with the man- balance sheet meeting on april 22, 2020; in particular, with  stitute member for mr. semih yalcin, mr.  christian graf von 
agement board, submitted the declaration of compliance  regard to their lawfulness and compliance with require- hardenberg joined the supervisory board as an employee 
required under section 161 aktg on december 11, 2019. the  ments. the auditor kpmg reported on the key findings of   representative on april 1, 2019. the supervisory board mem-
full declaration of compliance and more extensive expla- the audit, the specified scope for the audit and important  bers’ term of office will end according to  schedule at the 
nations of the company’s corporate governance can be  circumstances arising during the audit. the management  conclusion of the regular annual  general meeting that 
found in the corporate governance report. readers are  board and the auditor kpmg were available for further  resolves on the discharge for the financial year 2019.
referred to the remuneration report for further informa- questions and additional information requested by the 
tion regarding the remuneration structure for the manage- supervisory board. 
ment board and supervisory board. 
there were no conflicts of interest disclosed by the super-
visory board in the financial year 2019.
20
report of the  supervisory board 
annual report 2019
the committees constituted by the supervisory board are  i would particularly thank mr. semih yalcin whose high 
represented as follows: level of personal commitment has had a lasting impact on 
the company. further, the supervisory board would like 
audit committee: to thank the management board and all the company’s 
patrick kolek (chair), dr. martin enderle,   employees around the world for their outstanding achieve-
björn ljungberg ment in the financial year 2019, which was a year charac-
terized by many important milestones and strong growth. 
remuneration committee: this would not have been possible without the commit-
dr. martin enderle (chair), patrick kolek,   ment and positive attitude of all our employees.
vera stachowiak
nomination committee: berlin, april 22, 2020
dr. martin enderle (chair), patrick kolek,   for the supervisory board
hilary gosher
strategy committee: 
hilary gosher (chair), patrick kolek,  
dr. martin enderle
dr. martin enderle
chair of the supervisory board of
delivery hero se
21
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
corporate  
corporate governance statement, group  declaration of compliance 2019
 governance statement and corporate 
 governance report (sections 289f, 315d hgb,  declaration by the management board and the 
governance
 section 3.10 gcgc)  supervisory board of delivery hero se regarding the 
from the point of view of delivery hero se (also referred  recommendations of the “government commission 
to as “the company”), good corporate governance is an  german corporate governance code” pursuant to 
essential prerequisite for, and a reflection of, responsible   section 161 aktg
leadership. as a multinational company, delivery hero se 
corporate governance statement,  
group governance statement and   attaches paramount importance to governance geared  management board and supervisory board declare:
corporate governance report  22 toward its long-term success, as well as sustainable value 
declaration of compliance  22 creation and corporate control. the management board  delivery hero se has complied since the publication of the 
and the supervisory board of delivery hero se are com- last declaration of compliance in december 2019 with the 
corporate governance and relevant  
mitted to the principles of strong and responsible corpo- recommendations of the “government commission ger-
disclosures pertaining to corporate  
governance practices  23 rate governance and aim to meet the highest standards in  man corporate governance codex” in the version dated 
this regard. in particular, the management board and the  february 7, 2017 published by the federal gazette on 
takeover-related disclosures and  
supervisory board are guided by the recommendations of  april 24, 2017 (the “code”), and will continue to comply in 
explanatory notes by the management  
board  32 the german corporate governance code as amended on  the future subject to the following deviations:
february 7, 2017 (“gcgk”). in the following, the supervi-
compensation report  37
sory board and the management board submit the corpo- —  pursuant to section 3.8 para. 3 of the code, the d&o 
rate governance statement of the company together with  insurance covering the members of a supervisory board 
the statement on corporate gover nance and the group  shall provide for a deductible in the amount of 10% of 
corporate governance statement in accordance with sec- the loss up to at least the amount of one and a half times 
tions 289f, 315d hgb (german commercial code). the fixed annual remuneration of the respective mem-
ber of the supervisory board. delivery hero se’s current 
declaration of compliance pursuant to  d&o insurance for the members of the supervisory 
 section 161 aktg board does not include a deductible. the management 
the declaration of compliance will be permanently avail- board and the supervisory board are of the opinion that 
able on the company’s internet page at https://ir.delivery- a deductible for the members of the supervisory board 
hero.com/websites/delivery/english/4100/corporate-  does not have any influence on the awareness of 
governance-report.html. responsibility and loyalty of the members of the super-
visory board with regard to their tasks and functions. 
moreover, it would reduce delivery hero se’s possibil-
ities to compete for competent and qualified members 
of the supervisory board.
try out our interactive table of contents.   —  pursuant to section 4.2.3 para. 2 sentence 6 of the code, 
you will be directed to the selected page.
the amount of remuneration for a member of a manage-
ment board shall be capped with maximum levels, both 
as regards variable components and in the aggregate. 
22
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
the long-term incentive plan, which has been adopted  —  pursuant to section 7.1.2 sentence 3 (variant 1 and vari- corporate governance and relevant  disclosures 
by the supervisory board, as part of the future compen- ant 2) of the code, the consolidated financial state- pertaining to corporate governance practices
sation system for the management board consists of a  ments and the group management report shall be 
stock option plan as well as of a restricted stock plan.  made publicly accessible within 90 days from the end  corporate governance – standards of good and 
both under the stock option plan and the restricted  of the financial year, while mandatory interim financial   responsible corporate governance
stock plan, the number of shares to be allocated to the  information shall be made publicly accessible within  good corporate governance according to the “reputable 
management board members is capped. however, both  45 days from the end of the reporting period. in order  businessman” model serves to increase on a lasting basis 
plans do not provide for a cap on the achievable amount  to ensure a high quality of the financial reporting, the  a company’s value as a going concern, and it fosters trust 
upon the exercise of the stock options (regarding the  recommended publication periods may not be com- in our company’s management and supervision among 
stock option plan) and on the value of the stocks to be  plied with. as a consequence, delivery hero se hereby  national and international investors, the financial markets, 
transferred to the beneficiary after the expiry of the  declares a deviation from the respective recommen- business partners, employees and the public. accordingly, 
blocking period (regarding the restricted stock plan).  dation. however, delivery hero se is constantly seek- the company’s management board, supervisory board and 
in the opinion of the supervisory board, such caps  ing to improve its reporting system to comply with this  management ensure that our corporate governance poli-
would not be appropriate, as they would contradict the  recommendation of the code in the future. cies are actively embraced in practice and continually 
alignment of the interests of the management board  refined in all areas of the company.
members with those of the shareholders. the purpose  berlin, in december 2019
of both instruments under the long-term incentive plan  corporate governance at delivery hero se is determined 
is to ensure an adequate and balanced participation of  delivery hero se  in particular by the applicable laws, the recommendations 
the management board members in the economic risks  of the gcgc, and internal rules of procedures and guide-
and chances of delivery hero se. in the opinion of the  on behalf of the supervisory board lines. 
supervisory board, a cap on the value of stocks would 
not be in line with such participation. as no cap on the  the management board and supervisory board attach 
achievable amount of the variable components of the  great value to cultivating an open corporate and manage-
compensation exists, also no cap on the remuneration  ment culture. positive interpersonal relations within the 
in the aggregate is in place. therefore, delivery hero se  company are of paramount importance for the company’s 
declares a deviation from section 4.2.3 para. 2 sentence  dr. martin enderle economic success and the satisfaction of its customers, 
6 of the code. employees, partners and shareholders. a detailed descrip-
tion of our corporate social responsibility is to be found 
—   pursuant to section 5.1.2 sentence 4 of the code, the  in the combined separate non-financial report. 
supervisory board together with the management  the management board 
board shall ensure long-term succession planning. as 
the members of the management board have only         
recently been appointed, it is declared that the super-
visory board has not yet developed any succession 
guidelines with regard to the members of the manage-
ment board. however, the supervisory board will,  niklas östberg    emmanuel thomassin
together with the management board, develop a long-
term succession planning in the near future, in order 
to ensure a sustainable corporate development.
23
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
internal control system the risk management system is closely coordinated with  compliance, compliance management and the code 
to ensure the reliability of its bookkeeping and accounting,  the determination of the group strategy and its business  of conduct of delivery hero se
the assurance on the effectiveness and efficiency of opera- objectives, including the protection of the group’s assets  for delivery hero se, compliance signifies the fostering of 
tions and compliance with applicable laws and regulations,  and value chain. the grc department reports significant  a sustainable corporate culture of integrity and responsi-
delivery hero se has set up a group-wide internal control  risks directly to the management board, the audit com- bility, as well as the responsible management of risks. the 
system to mitigate financial and operational risks. the  mittee and the supervisory board. further information on  company has developed a compliance management  system 
 internal control system’s effectiveness is monitored by the  our group-wide risk management system is provided in our  that aims to prevent corruption, conflicts of interest and 
internal audit department, the audit committee and the   current risk and opportunity report. other violations of law committed within the delivery hero 
supervisory board. the internal control system is constantly  group or by delivery hero se, its employees, directors or 
adapted to the requirements of the rapidly growing  internal auditing system executives. the compliance management system comprises 
delivery hero group. independence is the cornerstone of delivery hero’s internal  a system of measures intended to ensure that business is 
audit function. internal audit provides independent and  conducted at all times in full compliance with the law and 
the internal control system includes the necessary organi- objective assurance to the management board, audit com- with internal rules and principles. the compliance philos-
zational measures and controls within the company and  mittee and supervisory board regarding the adequacy and  ophy of delivery hero se focuses on preventing, detecting 
ensures compliance with internal guidelines, protection of  effectiveness of the company’s other governance processes  and reacting appropriately to every type of misconduct.
company assets and achievement of corporate goals.  (risk management, compliance management and internal 
 furthermore, the internal control system also allows the  controls). this is accomplished via risked-based audits per- the company has developed in addition a code of  conduct 
company to counteract the risks arising from business activ- formed by the internal audit team throughout the delivery   to provide employees with guidance in their decision- 
ities, monitor these risks on a permanent basis, and man- hero group and subsequent reporting to the management  making. it is a compilation of the principles, values and 
age them appropriately.  board and the supervisory board. rules of conduct of the company. every employee of the 
delivery hero group is responsible for reporting  violations, 
risk management system internal audit serves to promote responsible corporate  or potential violations, of law, the code of conduct or 
the key objectives of delivery hero se’s risk management   governance in accordance with the standards and code of  internal guidelines. the company offers  employees of the 
system are to manage and streamline the group-wide risk   ethics of the institute of internal auditors (iia) and deutsches  company and third parties various means of reporting 
management process, to control all risk management  institut für interne revision (diir). it provides the audit  compliance violations under its whistle-blower  system – 
related activities, and to ensure a comprehensive view on   committee of the supervisory board and the supervisory  if wished also in an anonymous way. the compliance 
all significant risks of the group.  board with a report on its activities on a regular basis. these  department investigates the reported cases and, if neces-
reports contain, inter alia, an account of the current status  sary, initiates appropriate measures to eliminate the 
within delivery hero se, the “governance, risk and com- of the various audits conducted under the flexible audit  reported compliance violations.
pliance (grc)” department is responsible for the early detec- plan, significant findings of completed audits and any 
tion, management and monitoring of risks. by means of its   outstanding issues relating to implementation of manage- the existing compliance management system is subject to 
continual development of the risk management system, the  ment action plans continuous review and is under continuous development 
grc department ensures that risks are identified and  by the management board in cooperation with the rele-
 managed throughout the company according to a specific  vant departments. the management board bears overall 
method.   responsibility for the proper functioning of the compliance 
 manage ment system; the supervisory board and the  internal 
audit department monitor the system’s effectiveness. 
24
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
duties, composition and working methods of  management board, are jointly responsible, in coordina- relevance to the company. in this context, the manage-
the management board and supervisory  tion with the supervisory board, for the corporate strat- ment board addresses deviations in the course of business 
board and of the supervisory board’s  egy and its day-to-day implementation in accordance with  development from prepared plans and agreed targets, 
 committees applicable laws, the articles of association and the rules   indicating the reasons.
of procedure. the management of all divisions is geared 
dualistic management and control structure to the aims set out by means of management board reso- when taking decisions, management board members may 
the company form of a european public company (socie- lutions. irrespective of the division of business responsi- not pursue any personal interests. during their term of 
tas europaea, se), expresses delivery hero se’s self-image  bilities, the members of the management board are jointly  office, they are subject to a comprehensive non-compete 
as an internationally oriented company with european  accountable for managing the enterprise. they work  clause and may not utilize business opportunities of the 
roots. as an se with its registered office in germany, the  together in a collegial manner and inform each other of  delivery hero group for their own gain. each member of 
company is subject to the european and german se regu- significant measures and business transactions in their  the management board must immediately disclose any 
lations as well as to the german stock corporation act  respective  divisions.  conflicts of interest to the supervisory board. all trans-
(aktg). management and control of the company are  actions between delivery hero se or group companies, on 
implemented by a dual management system. the manage- the rules of procedure laid down by the supervisory board  the one hand, and management board members and 
ment board and supervisory board cooperate on a trust  govern the cooperation and responsibilities of the manage- related parties, on the other, must adhere to standard 
basis to the benefit of the enterprise and are in regular  ment board members. in particular, they contain regula- industry practices and may be subject to prior approval by 
contact with one another. the management board is the  tions on the working methods of the management board  the supervisory board. management board members may 
management body; it is responsible for the company’s  members and on cooperation with the supervisory board.  only pursue secondary employment, especially supervi-
direction and business management. the supervisory  they also contain, inter alia, a catalog of matters requir- sory board positions outside the delivery hero group, with 
board is the company’s control and monitoring body,  ing supervisory board approval, set out the majorities  the permission of the supervisory board. 
advising and overseeing the management board in its man- required for the passing of management board resolutions, 
agement of the company’s business. and outline the matters reserved for the entire manage- the supervisory board is aware of the special importance 
ment board. management board meetings are held on a  of diversity in the company’s management. it firmly 
duties, lines of authority and composition of   regular basis, usually every two weeks. the management  believes that management and supervisory bodies with a 
the management board board, especially the chair, maintains regular contact with  diverse composition can open up new perspectives that, 
as the management board of delivery hero se, niklas  the chair of the supervisory board.  in turn, facilitate decision-making processes that help 
 östberg (chair and ceo) and emmanuel thomassin (cfo)  bring about a lasting improvement in performance. as 
are personally responsible for managing the company’s  the management board discusses the current state of  regards the make-up of the management board, the super-
divisions assigned to them. the management board is   strategy implementation with the supervisory board at  visory board attempts – even though professional and tech-
duty-bound to act in the company’s interest and obliged  regular intervals. it informs the supervisory board regu- nical qualifications are always the deciding criterion – to 
to increase on a lasting basis the company’s value as a  larly, promptly and comprehensively in regard to all ques- take the international character and various core sectors 
going concern. mr. östberg and mr. thomassin lead the  tions of strategy, planning, business development, risk  of the business model of delivery hero se into consider-
company in a spirit of partnership and, as members of the  exposure, risk management and compliance that are of  ation as appropriately as possible while, at the same time, 
25
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
honoring the principle of diversity, particularly in regard  the articles of association of delivery hero se provide that  discusses the course of business, strategic planning and 
to professional experience and the know-how of the  the supervisory board consists of six members. the super- significant investments on a regular basis. the supervisory 
 candidates. in this regard, the supervisory board also  visory board consists of six members, three of whom are  board also regularly assesses how effectively the super-
endeavors to give appropriate consideration to women.  employee representatives.  visory board as a whole and its committees fulfil their tasks. 
even though performance and qualifications are the par- please refer to the supervisory board report for more 
amount factors when selecting management board mem- the members of the supervisory board in the 2019 finan- details of its activities in the 2019 financial year. 
bers, such members shall not be more than 65 years old  cial year were 1:
when they are appointed. in accordance with the recommendations of the gcgc, the 
—  dr. martin enderle (chairman and member since  supervisory board has set up four committees: an audit 
duties, lines of authority and composition  may 29, 2017) committee, a remuneration committee, a nomination 
of the supervisory board —  patrick kolek (member since june 3, 2017;   committee and a strategy committee. each committee 
the supervisory board is responsible for regular advice  deputy chair since july 13, 2018) comprises three members. the chair of each committee 
and monitoring in respect of the management board’s gov- —  björn ljungberg (member since july 13, 2018) reports, regularly and in detail, to the full supervisory 
ernance of the company. the supervisory board performs  —  semih yalcin (member from july 13, 2018 to  board on the work done in its committee. 
its functions in accordance with statutory legislation, the  april 1, 2019)
articles of association of the company and its own rules  —  hilary gosher (member since july 13, 2018) the supervisory board of the company has set targets for 
of procedure. it is involved in decisions of fundamental  —  vera stachowiak (member since july 13, 2018) its own constitution, and it has determined for the body 
importance for the company and works for the good of  —   christian graf von hardenberg   as a whole objectives of skills and expertise that seeks to 
the company and in a spirit of trust with the other govern- (member since april 1, 2019) ensure the following: 
ing bodies of the company, especially the management 
board. the supervisory board has set rules of procedure for itself,  the members of the supervisory board should collectively 
which in particular regulate the working method and the  possess the knowledge, abilities and technical experience 
because the members of the management board were  division of tasks of the supervisory board and its commit- necessary for the proper discharge of their duties – super-
appointed in the financial year 2018 – and each to a term  tees. the chair of the supervisory board coordinates the  vising and advising the management board. furthermore, 
that ends on april 30, 2022 – the supervisory board has  work on the supervisory board and represents the inter- the legal gender quota is to be considered. the individual 
not yet developed any guidelines for the succession of  est of the supervisory board externally. the supervisory  members of the supervisory board should possess the 
management board members. however, the supervisory  board holds at least two meetings semiannually, with fur- knowledge, abilities and professional qualifications and 
board jointly with the management board are currently  ther meetings convened as and when necessary. meetings  experience they need to properly and diligently fulfil the 
planning the development of a long-term succession plan  held, and resolutions passed, in writing, by telephone or  duties and responsibilities assigned to them. at least one 
for the management board to ensure continuous develop- by means of electronic media are permissible. the super- member of the supervisory board must have expertise in 
ment of the company. visory board passes its resolutions with a simple majority  the fields of accounting or auditing; the members of the 
of members voting on the resolution; if there is a tie, the  supervisory board must, as a whole, also be familiar with 
chair shall have the casting vote. the supervisory board  the sector in which the company operates. all members 
1  the disclosures on the membership in the supervisory board and the super-
visory board committees also refer to the period prior to the legal form change 
from delivery hero ag to delivery hero se coming into force on july 13, 2018. 
26
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
of the supervisory board must ensure that they have suf- bearing in mind the delivery hero group’s international  regard to the current state of implementation for the com-
ficient time available to discharge their duty to supervise  operations, at least three members of the supervisory  position of the supervisory board, the following should 
and advise the management board. no more than two for- board are to have international business experience in the  be noted: the concrete objectives specified by the super-
mer members of the management board are permitted to  company’s core markets, specifically in europe, south  visory board for its composition and the desired realiza-
serve as members of the supervisory board. america, the near east (mena) and the asia-pacific region.  tion of the profile of skills and expertise were achieved in 
the appropriate business experience may be acquired in  full in financial year 2019. the independent supervisory 
each member of the supervisory board is obliged to  particular through management duties in a globally oper- board members within the meaning of section 5.4.2 gcgc 
observe the enterprise´s best interest. they may neither  ating company or by working as an advisor. are dr. martin enderle, patrick kolek, hilary gosher, vera 
pursue personal interests in their decisions nor exploit for  stachowiak, björn ljungberg and christian graf von hard-
their own benefit business opportunities to which the com- at least three members of the supervisory board are to be  enberg. the supervisory board verifies at regular intervals 
pany is entitled. no candidates for election to membership  independent as defined in section 5.4.2 sentence 2 gcgk.  that the goals for the composition of the supervisory board 
on the supervisory board are to be proposed to the annual  at present there is an age limit of 70 years and a term limit  and realization of the objectives and expertise continue 
general meeting who are members of the governing  of 15 years for supervisory board members, from which  to be achieved.
 bodies of, or exercise advisory functions at, significant  there may be an exemption in certain justified cases, since 
competitors of the enterprise, and hold any personal rela- the most important factor for appointment to membership  proposals submitted by the supervisory board to the 
tionships with a significant competitor or who (potentially)  on the supervisory board is a candidate’s professional and  annual general meeting for the election of supervisory 
are permanently or frequently subject to a conflict of inter- technical qualification. board members take these goals into account while aim-
est. a supervisory board member must disclose possible  ing, at the same time, for continuous realization of the 
conflicts of interest to the supervisory board. conflicts of  the members of the supervisory board shall comply with  profile of skills and expertise for the body as a whole. 
interest that have occurred are handled appropriately; the  the limit on the number of seats they are permitted to hold 
supervisory board provides information about them and  according to section 5.4.5 sentence 2 gcgc. accordingly,  composition and working methods  
how it was addressed in its report to the annual general  a member of the supervisory board who belongs to the  of the audit committee
meeting. significant, and not merely temporary, conflicts  management board of a listed company shall not hold  the audit committee is, inter alia, responsible for prepar-
of interest in the person of a supervisory board member  more than a total of three supervisory board seats in listed  ing resolutions of the supervisory board relating to the 
are to result in termination of their tenure. companies outside the group or in supervisory bodies of  audit and approval of the annual financial statements and 
companies outside the group that impose comparable  to the approval of the consolidated financial statements, 
the supervisory board shall reflect a well-balanced mea- requirements. as well as for the management board’s draft proposal for 
sure of diversity, particularly in respect of the interna - the use of net retained profits and the supervisory board’s 
tionality of its members, their experience and disparate  the chair of the supervisory board, the chair of the audit  proposal to the annual general meeting for the selection 
professional histories and backgrounds. the supervisory  committee, as well as the chair of the committee that  of an auditor. in addition, the audit committee devotes 
board has set a target for the quota of women on the super- addresses management board remuneration, shall be inde- particular attention to monitoring the accounting, the 
visory board (for further details in this regard see section  pendent from the company and the management board.  accounting process, the effectiveness of the internal con-
about the targets on the appointment of women in man- trol system, the risk management system, the internal audit 
agement roles). it is the conviction of the supervisory board that the com- system, the final audit – particularly the selection and 
position described ensures independent and efficient   independence of the auditor and the additional services 
advising and supervising of the management board. in  performed by the auditor – and compliance. the audit 
27
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
 committee also reviews the audit reports and the audi- composition and working methods of the  composition and working methods  
tor’s findings and makes recommendations to the super-  remuneration committee of the strategy committee
visory board in respect thereof. the system for remunerating the management board, as  the strategy committee is composed exclusively of share-
well as the amount and appropriateness of remuneration  holder representatives and deals with strategic matters 
the members of the audit committee in the 2019 financial  to be paid to the individual management board members,  relating to the company.
year were: is reviewed by the remuneration committee. in this regard, 
the remuneration committee supports the activities of  the members of the strategy committee in the 2019 finan-
—  patrick kolek, chair (member and chair since  the full supervisory board and prepares appropriate res- cial year were:
august 1, 2018) olutions for its plenary sessions.
—  dr. martin enderle (member until july 13, 2018 and  —  hilary gosher, chair (member and chair since  
since august 1, 2018) the members of the remuneration committee in the 2019  august 1, 2018)
—  björn ljungberg (member since august 1, 2018) financial year were: —  dr. martin enderle (member since august 1, 2018)
—  patrick kolek (member since august 1, 2018)
mr. patrick kolek – as chairman of the audit committee –  —  dr. martin enderle, chair (member until july 13, 2018, 
possesses the expertise required according to sections 100  and chair since august 1, 2018) remuneration of the members of the management 
(5) and 107 (4) aktg in the fields of accounting or auditing  —  patrick kolek (member since august 1, 2018) board and supervisory board and of the members of 
along with special knowledge and experience in the appli- —  vera stachowiak (member since august 1, 2018) the committees
cation of accounting standards and internal control proce- in regard to the remuneration paid to members of the 
dures. in addition, mr. patrick kolek is independent and  composition and working methods of   ma nagement board and supervisory board and to mem-
not a former member of the company’s management  the nomination committee bers of the committees, reference is made to the detailed 
board. the members of the audit committee are as a whole  the nomination committee is made up exclusively of rep- remuneration report, which is part of the combined man-
familiar with the sector in which the company operates. resentatives of the shareholders and gives the supervisory  agement report. the remuneration report also contains 
board the names of suitable candidates for the supervi- concrete particulars of the company’s existing share 
sory board to propose to the annual general meeting for  option program and similar securities-oriented incentive 
election to membership of the supervisory board. in doing  systems.
so, it considers both the desired objectives and expertise 
for the body as a whole and the supervisory board’s con-
crete  targets for its own composition.
the members of the nomination committee in the 2019 
financial year were:
—  dr. martin enderle, chair (member until july 13, 2018, 
and chair since august 1, 2018)
—  patrick kolek (member since august 1, 2018)
—  hilary gosher (member since august 1, 2018)
28
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
targets on the appointment of women in  the supervisory board has set a five-year target of 0% by  diversity plan
 management roles pursuant to section 76(4)  july 30, 2023 for the quota of women on the management  at delivery hero, the management board believes that 
and section 111(5) aktg board. the supervisory board is of the opinion that, for an  diversity is key to creating an amazing customer and 
according to section 76 (4) sentence 1 aktg, the manage- appointment to membership on the management board  employee experience, as well as a better future for the 
ment board must set targets for the quota of women in  of delivery hero se, the best possible professional and  communities we operate in. this is why diversity and inclu-
the two management levels below the management board.  technical qualifications are the paramount consideration,  sion are firmly embedded in the corporate culture of the 
according to section 111 (5) sentence 1 aktg, the supervi- not sex. in this regard, the supervisory board pays due con- company and delivery hero group companies. all dimen-
sory board must likewise set targets for the quota of  sideration to the fact that delivery hero se has been led  sions of diversity exist on an equal footing at delivery  
women on the supervisory board and on the management  by the same management board members since its con- hero se, be they, for example, age, sex, educational back-
board. version from a gmbh to an ag and then to an se, as well  ground or profession, origin or religion, or sexual orien-
as during its ipo. this composition of the management  tation or identity. the employees of delivery hero se come 
the company attaches great importance to diversity  board has thus far proven successful. however, as a mat- from more than 80 different countries and five continents. 
throughout the company and believes that the participa- ter of course, this does not exclude an increase in the pro- the management board and supervisory board of the com-
tion of different groups at managerial levels is prudent for  portion of women at this level. in view of the fact that the  pany also regard it as their duty to further increase – 
driving business growth and leading our market in inno- management board is currently constituted exclusively of  beyond setting targets for the quota of women on the 
vation. that being so, the management board is pursuing  men, the target of 0% has been achieved. management board and supervisory board and in man-
projects in partnership with the diversity and inclusion  agement positions – the various aspects of diversity and 
team to improve the rate of women and other diversity  the supervisory board has set a five-year target of 30% by  to use them productively.
characteristics within managerial positions.  july 30, 2023 for the quota of women on the supervisory 
board. currently, two women sit on the supervisory board,  in the financial year 2019, delivery hero created a diver-
for the first level below the management board, the man- which equates to a quota of 33.3%. the supervisory board  sity and inclusion team to build on its commitment to cre-
agement board set a target of 0% by june 26, 2022. this  has therefore met its target. ating a diverse and inclusive business. since the team was 
notwithstanding, the quota of women in 2019 stood at  formed, the company has developed a diversity and inclu-
20%., meaning that the target has been exceeded. this is  the supervisory board is aware, however, of the impor- sion strategy and a set of targeted goals, and implemented 
a 3% increase compared to the previous financial year, due  tance of diversity, and specifically of the special impor- a series of projects. further details on these activities can 
to the downsizing of the level below the management  tance of the participation of women in management and  be found in the combined separate non-financial report.
board. for the second level below the management board,  supervisory positions. accordingly, the supervisory board 
the management board set a target of 18% by june 26, 2022,  aims to increase the quota of women in the composition  to date, the company has not pursued a diversity concept 
which has also been exceeded reaching a quota of 24%. of the management board and the supervisory board in  of its own in respect of the composition of the manage-
the long term. ment board and supervisory board. however, the inner 
manifestation and further development of an open and 
integrative corporate culture occupies a position of major 
importance in the daily work of the management board 
and supervisory board.
29
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
corporate governance practice and  d&o insurance  website. alongside changes to the shareholder structure 
transparency the company has taken out consequential loss liability  subject to disclosure obligations, delivery hero se also 
insurance (known as “d&o insurance”) for the members  publishes transactions in shares of the company carried 
shareholders and the annual general meeting of the management board and supervisory board that  out by individuals in management roles at delivery hero se, 
the shareholders exercise their co-management and   covers personal liability risk in the event that management  and related parties to such individuals, in accordance with 
 control rights in the annual general meeting, where they  board or supervisory board members are held liable for  article 19 of the market abuse regulation. as part of com-
also exercise their voting rights. the annual general meet- financial losses in performing their services. for the man- prehensive investor relations work, the company main-
ing is chaired, in accordance with the articles of associa- agement board, a deductible of 10% of the loss, up to one- tains a close and ongoing dialogue with current and poten-
tion, by the chair of the supervisory board or by another  and-a-half times the fixed annual remuneration, is stipu- tial shareholders. 
supervisory board member designated by them. each share  lated in the d&o policy. no similar deductible has been 
confers one vote. on the basis of its statutory duties, the  stipulated for the supervisory board since the manage- accounting and auditing
annual general meeting decides, inter alia, on the use of  ment board and supervisory board are of the opinion that  the unaudited semi-annual financial report as of june 30, 
net retained profits, ratification of the acts of the manage- a deductible has no effect on supervisory board members’  2019, and the consolidated financial statements as of 
ment board and supervisory board, the appointment of  sense of responsibility or loyalty in regard to their duties  december 31, 2019, were drawn up according to the inter-
the auditor, the election of supervisory board members  and positions. moreover, the company’s ability to recruit  national financial reporting standards (ifrs) as applicable 
and capital or structural measures. competent and qualified supervisory board members  in the eu. the consolidated financial statements contain 
would be limited by the stipulation of a deductible. in addition the disclosures that are required according to 
the company supports the shareholders as much as  section 315a (1) hgb. the annual financial statements of 
 possible in the exercise of their rights in the annual  general  transparent corporate governance and communication the company for financial year 2019 were drawn up accord-
meeting. all documents and information relating to the  transparency is one of the essential components of good  ing to the provisions of the german commercial code 
annual general meeting are regularly made available – in  corporate governance. the shares of the company are  (hgb) and the provisions of the german stock corporation 
german and english – to any interested party on the com- listed on the prime standard segment of the frankfurt  act (aktg).
pany’s website shortly after the annual general meeting is  stock exchange. the company is therefore subject to the 
convened. most stringent transparency requirements according to  kpmg ag wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, berlin (“kpmg”) 
statute and stock exchange law. delivery hero se reports  was chosen for financial year 2019 as the auditor of the 
shareholders have the option of exercising their voting  on the position and development of the company and  annual financial statements and consolidated financial 
rights in the annual general meeting themselves or  having  delivery hero group in both german and english in order  statements. the undersigning auditors for the 2019 annual 
it exercised by an authorized agent of their choice. the  to inform institutional investors, private shareholders,  and consolidated financial statements of the company are 
management board also takes care of appointing a repre- financial analysts, business partners, employees and the  björn knorr and alexander heidgen.
sentative for the exercise of a shareholder’s voting rights  interested general public simultaneously and on an equal 
according to the shareholder’s instructions (voting rights  footing. all key information, such as ad hoc and voting  the semi-annual financial report and the quarterly bulle-
representatives appointed by the company); this represen- rights notifications, all financial reports and the financial  tin for the first quarter were initially discussed, before pub-
tative will be available during the general meeting. calendar, is published in german and english on the  lication, by the audit committee with the company’s cfo, 
30
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
mr. emmanuel thomassin. both the semi-annual financial  berlin, february 10, 2020
report and the quarterly bulletins for the first and third 
quarters were discussed by the management board jointly  on behalf of the management board
with the supervisory board prior to their publication.
kpmg promptly reports to the chairman of the audit com-
mittee any possible grounds for exclusion or  reasons for 
bias that arise during the audit if they are not promptly 
eliminated. the auditor is also to report promptly on all 
findings and happenings of material importance for the  niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin
duties of the supervisory board that come to the auditor’s  chair of the management board, ceo  member of the management board, cfo
knowledge as the audit is being performed. it is likewise 
agreed that the auditor will inform the supervisory board, 
or so note in the audit report, if, when auditing the finan-
cial statements, it ascertains facts that reveal inaccuracy 
in the statement of compliance issued by the management  on behalf of the supervisory board
board and supervisory board pursuant to section 161 aktg. 
prior to the election proposal of the auditor to the annual 
general meeting, the company obtains a comprehensive 
declaration of independence from the auditor in order to 
ensure that there are no business, financial, personal or 
other relations that could cast doubt on the independence  dr. martin enderle
of the auditor. chair of the supervisory board
31
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
takeover-related disclosures and  restrictions that concern voting rights   persons who perform management duties at delivery  
 explanatory notes by the management  or the transfer of shares hero se within the meaning of the european market abuse 
board regulation (mar) must observe the closed periods (trading 
restrictions on transfer prohibitions) established by article 19(11) mar.
this chapter contains the disclosures pursuant to sections  according to the understanding of the management board 
289a (1), 315a (1) of the german commercial code together  of the company, the restrictions on transfer as stated by the  restriction on voting rights 
with the explanatory report of the management board  law on obligations are as follows:  according to the understanding of the management board 
pursuant to section 176 (1) sentence 1 german stock cor- of the company, the restrictions on voting rights as stated 
poration act [aktiengesetz – aktg] in conjunction with sec- —   overall 3,505,500 shares were held in escrow accord- by the law on obligations are as follows: 
tion 9(1) lit. c (ii) se regulation. ing to a shareholders agreement and several supple-
mentary agreements. depending on the respective  —  pursuant to sections 71b and 71d aktg, there are no 
composition of subscribed capital trustor, the agreements contained vesting periods of  voting rights with respect to approx. 78,230 shares in 
at the end of the reporting period, the company’s sub- twelve and twenty-four months. the twelve months  the company.
scribed capital amounted to € 188,755,039.00, which was  vesting period ended at the conclusion of december 31,  —  in accordance with section 136 aktg, members of the 
subdivided into 188,744,039 no-par value bearer shares.  2017 and the twenty-four months vesting period ended  management board are restricted in exercising their 
at the conclusion of december 31, 2018. the shares  voting rights with respect to the 691,608 shares in the 
in january 2020 and in march 2020, four further capital  were transferred back to the trustors or any proceeds  company held by them, or which are held in trust on 
increases were registered, so that at the time of the publi- from the sale of the shares were paid out to the  trustors  their behalf.
cation of this report the company´s subscribed capital  or the company to settle claims. —  there is an agreement between the shareholders who 
amounts to € 197,777,550.00, which is subdivided into  —   overall 367,200 shares were held in escrow according  had invested in the company before the ipo to the 
197,777,550 no-par value bearer shares. to an investment agreement. the agreement contains  effect that they may exercise their voting rights at the 
vesting periods respectively for one third of the shares,  first annual general meeting following the ipo at which 
there are no different share classes. the same rights and  which ended at the conclusion of june 30, 2018,  the supervisory board will be newly elected in such a 
obligations are associated with all shares. each share grants  june 30, 2019, respectively, and will end at the conclu- way as to determine the composition and term of office 
one vote and determines the shareholder’s share in the prof- sion of june 30, 2020. of the supervisory board, provided that this general 
its. shares held by the company itself, which do not grant  meeting takes place before the end of 2019. specifically, 
the company any rights in accordance with section 71b aktg,  the period of office agreed by the shareholders will 
are excluded from this.  end when the supervisory board is discharged for the 
second complete financial year following the ipo.
32
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
—  pursuant to a shareholders agreement, 3,505,500 shares  shares with special rights conferring   amendments to the articles of association are made by 
originally held in escrow were subject to the contractual  powers of control  resolution of the general meeting in accordance with sec-
obligation to uniformly use the voting rights of the  there are no shares with special rights conferring  powers  tion 20 (2) of the articles of association, requiring, unless 
shares, held for the respective shareholders in escrow.  of control. this conflicts with mandatory legal provisions, a majority of 
the shares were transferred back to the trustors or any  two-thirds of the valid votes cast or, if at least one-half of 
proceeds from the sale of the shares were paid out to  statutory requirements and provisions in the  the share capital is represented, the simple majority of the 
the trustors or the company to settle claims. articles of association regarding nomination  valid votes cast. as far as the law requires a capital majority 
and dismissal of members of the management  in addition to a majority of votes for resolutions of the gen-
there may be voting right restrictions that go beyond this  board, and amendments to the articles of  eral meeting, a simple majority of the share capital repre-
arising from the stock corporation act, such as section 136  association sented at the time the resolution is passed shall be sufficient 
aktg or capital market law provisions, in particular  in accordance with section 7 (1) of the articles of associa- to the extent that this is legally permissible. in accordance 
 sections 33 et seq of the german securities trading act  tion, the management board consists of one or more indi- with section 12 (5) of the articles of association, the super-
(wertpapierhandelsgesetz – wphg). viduals. the number of individuals is determined by the  visory board is authorized to make editorial changes to the 
supervisory board. the management board of delivery   articles of association by resolution.
shareholdings exceeding 10% of voting rights hero se currently consists of two individuals. in accordance 
at the end of the 2019 financial year, the following direct  with sections 9 (1), 39 (2), 46 se regulation, sections 84  powers of the management board in 
and indirect holdings in delivery hero se existed, which  and 85 aktg and section 7 (3) (4) of the articles of asso-  particular with respect to the possibility of 
exceeded the threshold of 10% of the voting rights2 and  ciation, the supervisory board appoints the members of  issuing or buying back shares
which were notified to the company by means of voting  the management board for a maximum term of six years.  the management board of the company (formerly 
rights notifications in accordance with sections 33,  individu als may be reappointed. if multiple individuals are  delivery hero ag) was originally authorized to increase 
34 wphg (sections 32, 22 wphg old version): appointed to the management board, the supervisory  the registered capital of the company until june 8, 2022 
board may designate a chair as well as a deputy chair, pur- with the consent of the super visory board once or repeat-
—  naspers limited with its registered seat in cape town,  suant to section 7 (2) of the articles of association. if an  edly, by up to a total of € 882,300.00 by the issuance of up 
south africa through in particular mih food holdings  essential member of the management board is absent, the  to 882,300 new no-par value registered shares against con-
b. v. (attributed)  court must, in urgent cases and at the request of an  tributions in cash (authorized  capital/ii). the authorized 
—  baillie gifford & co with its registered seat in edinburgh,  involved party, appoint another member; see section 85 (1),  capital/ii was cancelled by  resolution of the annual gen-
united kingdom through in particular vanguard word  sentence 1 aktg. if there is cause to do so, the supervisory  eral meeting on june 6, 2018 ( agenda item 6).
fund (attributed) board may revoke the appointment of the member of the 
  management board as well as the designation as chair of  the management board of the company was originally to 
further information on the amount of the holdings listed  the management board, see sections 9 (1), 39 (2) se regu- increase the registered capital of the company until june 8, 
above can be found in the disclosures on voting right noti- lation and section 84 (3), s. 1 and 2 aktg. 2022, with the consent of the supervisory board once or 
fications in the notes to the delivery hero se 2019 annual  repeatedly, by up to a total of € 8,158,550.00 by the issuance 
financial statements as well as the “voting rights notifica- of up to 8,158,550 new no-par value registered shares against 
tions” item on the company’s website at https://ir.  contributions in cash (authorized capital/iii). the subscrip-
deliveryhero.com/websites/delivery/english/6400/voting-  tion rights of the shareholders were excluded. the autho-
rights-notifications.html. rized capital/iii is to be used for any purposes (including, 
2  the information shown here takes into account the most recent notifications of 
voting rights received by the company. these notifications of voting rights may 
take into account capital increases that have not already been carried out.
33
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
without limitation, in connection with acquisition transac- the management board of the company is authorized to  tributions (authorized capital/vii). by resolution of the 
tions by the company, the participation of further investors  increase the registered capital of the company until june 8,  annual general meeting (formerly delivery hero ag), the 
in the company, share swap transactions, the issuance of  2022, with the consent of the supervisory board once or  authorized capital/vii was completely cancelled on june 6, 
additional shares under the so-called loan and escrow  repeatedly, by up to a total of € 18,675,300.00 by the issu- 2018 (agenda item 6) and increased by € 55,546,866.00 to 
agreement entered into on august 7, 2014, as amended from  ance of up to 18,675,300 new no-par value registered shares  € 55,546,866.00. by resolution of the annual general meet-
time to time, or any new loan agreements, etc.). the man- against contributions in cash (authorized capital/v). the  ing on june 12, 2019 (agenda item 5), the authorized 
agement board of the company was authorized to deter- subscription rights of the shareholders are excluded. the   capital/vii was completely cancelled and increased by 
mine with the consent of the supervisory board the further  authorized capital/v serves the fulfilment of contractual  € 54,071,949.00 to € 54,071,949.00. the subscription rights 
scope of the shareholders’ rights pertaining to the shares  claims, already agreed upon prior to january 1, 2017, of  of the shareholders are only excluded in certain cases or 
to be newly issued and the further conditions of the issu- those shareholders who have subscribed for new shares  can only be excluded by the management board with the 
ance of the new shares. the authorized capital/iii was fully  in delivery hero gmbh (prior to the conversion into  consent of the supervisory board. the management board 
utilized. delivery hero ag) based on the resolution dated decem- is authorized to determine any further details of the cap-
ber 4 to 9, 2016 for an increase of the nominal share capi- ital increase and its implementation, subject to the con-
the management board of the company was originally  tal; shares out of the authorized capital/v may only be  sent of the supervisory board; this also includes the deter-
authorized to increase the registered capital of the com- issued for this purpose. for certain claims, the utilization  mination of the profit participation of the new shares, 
pany until june 8, 2022, with the consent of the supervi- of the authorized capital/v is limited to 3,505,500 new  which may, in deviation of section 60 (2) aktg, also par-
sory board once or repeatedly, by up to a total of  shares. the shares shall be issued at the lowest issue price.  ticipate in the profit of completed fiscal years. shares that 
€ 8,961,523.00 by the issuance of up to 8,961,523 new no-  the management board is authorized to determine with  are issued to members of the management board and 
par value registered shares against contributions in cash  the consent of the supervisory board the further scope of  employees of the company, as well as to members of the 
(authorized capital/iv). the authorized capital/iv has  the shareholders’ rights pertaining to the shares to be  corporate bodies and employees of affiliated companies 
been used several times since the original authorization.  newly issued and the further conditions of the issuance of  of the company within the meaning of sections 15 et seq 
the subscription rights of the shareholders are excluded.  the new shares. aktg, shall have in each case a full profit participation for 
the authorized capital/iv serves the fulfilment of acquisi- the fiscal year in which they are issued.
tion rights (option rights), which have been granted or  the management board of the company was originally 
promised by the company to current or former employees  authorized to increase the registered capital of the com- on december 5, 2017, the management board (formerly 
and managing directors of the company and its affiliated  pany (formerly delivery hero ag) until june 8, 2022, with  delivery hero ag) resolved to use the authorized capital/
companies, members of the supervisory board of the com- the consent of the supervisory board once or repeatedly,  vii to increase the company’s share capital by up to 
pany and further beneficiaries who are or were acting for  by up to a total of € 12,890,100.00 by the issuance of up to  € 10,500,000.00 from € 171,998,900.00 to € 182,498,900.00 
the company or its affiliated companies, in order to replace  12,890,100 new no-par value registered shares against  by the issuance of up to 10,500,000 new no-par value reg-
the hitherto existing virtual share program of the com-  contributions in cash (authorized capital/vi). the autho- istered shares. the final number of new shares amounting 
pany with effect as of april 21, 2017; shares out of the  rized capital/vi was cancelled by resolution of the annual  to 10,500,000 to be issued was set in accordance with the 
authorized capital/iv may only be issued for this purpose.  general meeting on june 6, 2018 (agenda item 6). resolution of the management board on december 6, 2017. 
the management board is authorized to determine with  the capital increase and the implementation of the capi-
the consent of the supervisory board the further scope of  the management board was originally authorized to  tal increase were entered in the commercial register on 
the shareholders’ rights pertaining to the shares to be  increase the share capital of the company until june 8,  december 6, 2017. 
newly issued and the further conditions of the issuance of  2022, with the consent of the supervisory board once or 
the new shares. repeatedly, by up to a total of € 25,000,000.00 by the issu- on february 21, 2018, the management board (formerly 
ance of up to 25,000,000 new no-par value registered  delivery hero ag) resolved to use authorized capital/iv to 
shares against contributions in cash and/or non-cash con- increase the company’s share capital by up to € 2,603,642.00 
34
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
from € 182,498,900.00 to a maximum of € 185,102,542.00  on february 20, 2019, the management board resolved to  through the issuance of up to 42,087,761 new no-par value 
by the issuance of up to 2,603,642 new no-par value regis- use the authorized capital/iv to increase the company’s  registered shares against mixed contribution in kind. the 
tered shares against contributions of cash.  share capital by up to € 1,521,328.00 from € 185,930,494.00  capital increase and the implementation has not taken 
to a maximum of € 187,451,822.00 by the issuance of up to  place yet.
the final number of new shares to be issued was deter- 1,521,328 new registered shares against cash contribution. 
mined in accordance with the resolution of the manage- the capital increase and the implementation were entered  on january 15, 2020, the management board resolved to 
ment board (formerly delivery hero ag) on march 12, 2018: in the commercial register on february 21, 2019.  use the authorized capital/iii to increase the company’s 
share capital by € 8,158,550.00 from € 188,775,039.00 to 
a) 1,366,311 shares on february 20, 2019, the management board resolved to  € 196,933,589.00 by the issuance of 8,158,550 new regis-
use the authorized capital/iv to increase the company’s  tered shares against cash contribution. the capital increase 
  t he capital increase and its implementation were  share capital by up to € 52,400.00 from € 187,451,822.00  and the implementation were entered in the commercial 
entered in the commercial register on march 14, 2018.  to a maximum of € 187,504,222.00 by the issuance of up   register on january 17, 2020. the authorized capital/iii was 
to 52,400 new registered shares against cash contribution.  fully utilized.
b) 90,100 shares the capital increase and the implementation were entered 
in the commercial register on february 25, 2019.  on march 3, 2020, the management board resolved to use 
  t he capital increase and its implementation were entered  the authorized capital/iv to increase the company’s share 
in the commercial register on march 19, 2018.  on may 21, 2019, the management board resolved to use  capital by up to € 657,251.00 from € 196,933,589.00 to 
the authorized capital/iv to increase the company’s share  € 197,590,840.00 by the issuance of up to 657,251 new reg-
on may 29, 2018, the management board (formerly  capital by up to € 1,173,942.00 from € 187,504,222.00 to a  istered shares against cash contribution. the capital 
delivery hero ag) resolved to use authorized capital/iv to  maximum of € 188,678,164.00 by the issuance of up to  increase and the implementation were entered in the 
increase the company’s share capital by up to € 500,266.00  1,173,942 new registered shares against cash contribution.   commercial register on march 5, 2020. the authorized 
from € 183,955,311.00 to a maximum of 184,455,577.00 by  the capital increase and the implementation were entered   capital/iv still amounts to € 5,459,727.00 after partial 
the issuance of up to 500,266 new no-par value registered  in the commercial register on may 22, 2019.   utilization. 
shares against contributions of cash. the final number of 
new shares to be issued was set at 500,266 shares in accor- on may 21, 2019, the management board resolved to use  on march 3, 2020, the management board resolved to use 
dance with the resolution of the management board of  the authorized capital/iv to increase the company’s share  the authorized capital/iv to increase the company’s share 
may 30, 2018. the capital increase and its implementation  capital by up to € 96,875.00 from € 188,678,164.00 to a  capital by up to € 8,125.00 from € 197,590,840.00 to 
were entered in the commercial register on may 31, 2018.  maximum of € 188,775,039.00 by the issuance of up to  € 197,598,965.00 by the issuance of up to 8,125 new regis-
96,875 new registered shares against cash contribution.  tered shares against cash contribution. the capital increase 
on august 1, 2018, the management board resolved to use  the capital increase and the implementation were entered  and the implementation were entered in the commercial 
the authorized capital/vii to increase the company’s share  in the commercial register on june 3, 2019. the authorized  register on march 12, 2020. the authorized capital/iv still 
capital by up to € 1,474,917.00 from € 184,455,577.00 to a  capital/iv still amounts to € 6,116,978.00 after  partial  amounts to € 5,451,602.00 after partial utilization. 
maximum of € 185,930,494.00 by the issuance of up to   utilization.
1,474,917 new registered shares against in-kind contribu- on march 15, 2020, the management board resolved to use 
tions. the capital increase and the implementation were  on december 13, 2019, the management board resolved  the authorized capital / vii to increase the company´s share 
entered in the commercial register on august 8, 2018. the  to use the authorized capital/vii to increase the compa- capital by up to € 178,585.00 from € 197,598,965.00 to 
authorized capital/vii still amounts to € 54,071,949.00 after  ny´s share capital by up to € 42,087,761.00 from the regis- € 197,777,550.00 by the issuance of up to 178,585 new reg-
partial utilization at the end of the reporting period. tered share capital by the date this decision is implemented  istered shares against a mixed contribution in kind. the 
35
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
capital increase and the implementation were entered in  in accordance with authorization by the general meeting  affiliated companies, as well as selected executives and 
the commercial register on march 20, 2020. the autho- of june 13, 2017 (agenda item 4, lit. a), the share capital of  employees of the company or affiliated companies in ger-
rized capital/vii still amounts to € 53,893,364.00 after par- the company is conditionally increased by € 3,485,000.00  many and abroad. the new shares will be entitled to divi-
tial utilization." by issuing up to 3,485,000 new no-par value registered  dends from the beginning of the  fiscal year for which a res-
shares of the company with a fractional amount of the reg- olution of the annual general meeting has not yet been 
the share capital of the company was originally condition- istered share capital of € 1.00 per share (conditional  made on the appropriation of the balance sheet profit at 
ally increased by up to € 61,219,560.00 by issuing up to   capital 2017/ii). the conditional capital 2017/ii serves to  the time the subscription right is exercised. the manage-
61,219,560 new no-par value registered shares of the com- secure subscription rights from stock options issued by the  ment board of the company or, to the extent members of 
pany with a fractional amount of the registered share  company under the authorization of the general meeting  the management board are affected, the supervisory board 
 capital of € 1.00 per share (conditional capital 2017/i). by  (formerly delivery hero ag) of june 13, 2017, (agenda item 4,  of the company is authorized to determine the further 
reso lution of the annual general meeting on june 12, 2019  lit. a) as part of the stock option program 2017/ii from the  details of the conditional capital increase and its consum-
(agenda item 6), the conditional capital 2017/1 was com- date of the registration of conditional capital 2017/ii until  mation.
pletely cancelled and conditionally increased by  june 30, 2020 to members of the management board of 
€ 61,219,560.00 to € 61,219,560.00 (conditional capital  the company, members of managing corporate bodies of  on january 15, 2020, the management board resolved, that 
2019/1). the conditional capital increase serves the grant- affiliated companies, as well as selected executives and  the company will issue – partially utilizing the authoriza-
ing of shares on the exercise of conversion or option rights  employees of the company or affiliated companies in  tion by the annual general meeting of the company of 
or the fulfilment of conversion or option obligations to the   germany and abroad. the new shares will be  entitled to  june 12, 2019 – against contribution in cash two tranches 
holders or creditors of convertible bonds, warrant bonds,  dividends from the beginning of the fiscal year for which  of convertible bonds in the principle amount of at least 
profit participation rights and/or income bonds (or a  a reso lution of the annual general meeting has not yet  € 1,500,000,000.00, with conversion rights to new shares 
 combination of these instruments), issued on the basis of  been made on the appropriation of the balance sheet profit  of the company from the conditional capital 2019/i or to 
the authorizing resolution of the general meeting of  at the time the subscription right is exercised. the manage- existing shares of the company (“convertible bonds”), 
june 13, 2017. the new shares participate in profits from  ment board of the company or, to the extent members of  thereby excluding the subscription rights of the sharehold-
the beginning of the fiscal year in which they are created  the management board are affected, the supervisory  ers to the convertible bonds.
and for all subsequent fiscal years. in deviation hereof, the  board of the company is authorized to determine the 
management board can, insofar as legally permissible and   further details of the conditional capital increase and its  the complete version of these authorizations is set out in 
with the approval of the supervisory board, determine that   consummation. the company’s articles of association in the version of 
the new shares participate in profits from the beginning  march 19, 2020 (registered in the trade registry on march 
of the fiscal year for which at the time of the exercise of  in accordance with authorization by the general meeting  20, 2020). the current version of the articles of associa-
the conversion or option rights, the fulfilment of the con- of june 12, 2019 (agenda item 11), the share capital of the  tion of the company is available in the subsection “arti-
version or option obligations or the granting (of shares)  company is conditionally increased by € 3,000,000.00 by  cles of association” on the company’s website at https://
instead of the amount due, still no resolution by the gen- issuing up to 3,000,000 new no-par value registered shares  ir.deliveryhero.com/websites/delivery/english/4400/arti-
eral meeting as to the appropriation of the balance sheet  of the company with a fractional amount of the registered  cles-of-association.html.
profit has been passed. the management board is autho- share capital of € 1.00 per share (conditional capital 2019/
rized to determine the further details of the implementa- ii). the conditional capital 2019/ii serves exclusively to  subject to approval by the supervisory board, and while 
tion of the conditional capital increase. secure subscription rights from stock options issued by  upholding the principle of equality (section 53a, aktg), the 
the company to members of the management board of  management board is (or respectively – regarding the 
the company, members of managing corporate bodies of  authorization to take their own shares as security – was), 
36
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
authorized, until june 12, 2022, to acquire shares to be held  compensation agreements concluded   compensation report pursuant to 
by the company itself up to a total of 10% of the company  by the company with members of the   sections 289a(2), 315a(2) hgb
share capital existing at the time of the resolution or – if   management board or employees for   (this compensation report pursuant to §§ 289a (2), 315a (2) 
this value is smaller – of the share capital existing at the  the event of a takeover bid hgb constitutes part of the combined management report 
time that the authorization is exercised, or – subject to the  in the event of a change of control, members of the man- 2019).
time limit to june 30, 2017 – to take the same as security.  agement board are entitled to resign from their position 
together with other shares held by the company itself and  within three months of the date of the change of control,  the following compensation report complies with the 
which the company has already acquired or taken as secu- subject to a notice period of three months to the end of a  accounting standards for capital market-oriented compa-
rity and still owns, or which are attributed to it in accor- calendar month. resignation from the management board  nies (german commercial code, german accounting stan-
dance with section 71a et seq aktg, the shares acquired  becoming effective results in termination of the respective  dards and international financial reporting standards) along 
under the above-mentioned authorization and taken as  board member’s contract of employment.  with the recommendations of the german corporate gov-
security must not exceed 10% of the respective share cap- ernance code (deutscher corporate governance kodex) in 
ital in the company at any time. this authorization may be  in the case of resignation from office following a change  the version of february 7, 2017 (hereinafter “dcgk”). the 
exercised by the company once or multiple times, fully or  of control, management board member mr. emmanuel  basic features of the compensation system for executive 
in partial amounts, for a single or multiple purposes, but  thomassin is entitled to compensation in the amount of  and supervisory board members are described, and infor-
also by group companies or third parties for the account  150% of the severance cap, which may not exceed the  mation is provided with respect to the remuneration 
of the company or group companies. the authorization  remaining term of the service agreement (coc-cap). in the  granted and paid out to the members of the management 
must not be exercised for the purpose of trading the com- case of resignation from office following a change of con- board and the supervisory board of delivery hero se in 2019. 
pany’s own shares. trol, the incentive instruments held by management board 
members mr. niklas östberg and mr. emmanuel thomas- basic features and objectives of the 
material company agreements that are  sin (such as convertible bonds and share options) become   compensation system for members of the 
 subject to the condition of a change of  vested or are immediately allocated. in the case of   management board
 control resulting from a takeover bid   mr. thomassin, the coc-cap is also applicable in this  the supervisory board adopts the compensation system 
and subsequent effects respect. the employment contracts for each of the manage- for management board members as proposed by the com-
the following material agreements of the company exist  ment board members provide for payments in lieu of vaca- pensation committee. the compensation system and the 
that are subject to a change of control following a take- tion in the event of resignation from office following a  appropriateness of the total compensation, along with the 
over bid: change of control.  individual compensation components, are regularly 
reviewed and adjusted as necessary. in particular, the pro-
the company is party to two substantial software license  the employment contracts for members of the manage- visions of § 87 aktg (aktiengesetz, german stock corpora-
contracts, which are subject to a change of control clause.  ment board do not provide for any other compensation in  tion act) and the recommendations and suggestions made 
one of them contains an automatic termination of a  service  the event of the termination of the employment due to a  in section 4.2.2 and 4.2.3 dcgk have been taken into 
component and the other one a termination right. further- change of control. there are no similar compensation  account. in its review of the appropriateness of the com-
more, the company is party to two substantial lease con- agreements with other company employees. pensation level and system, the supervisory board of 
tracts, which contain a common consent requirement for  delivery hero se was assisted by independent external 
the transfer of the lease agreement. compensation experts.
37
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
the remuneration system for the members of the man- non-performance-based compensation  performance-based compensation 
agement board was resolved by the supervisory board in  base salary share-based compensation
june 2017 and revised effective january 1, 2018. the revised  the base salary of the management board members is paid  until the ipo, the performance-based compensation con-
compensation system applies equally to all members of  in twelve monthly installments. sisted of a virtual share program (vsp). the management 
the management board. it is in alignment with the com- board members received virtual shares from the  company’s 
pany’s corporate strategy and suitable to facilitate a sus- fringe benefits vsp. in connection with the ipo, all outstanding  virtual 
tainable corporate development. a distinct variable share-  in addition to reimbursement of travel costs and other busi- shares of the company’s vsp were converted into option 
based compensation component is targeted to achieve a  ness-related expenses, the management board members  rights. consequentially the stock option program 2017 
close alignment with shareholder interests. the agreed  receive monthly contributions to their health and nursing  (sop 2017) was launched. for the conversion into option 
internal performance target corresponds with the com- care insurance as provided by law. rights and the grant of new option rights under the sop 
pany’s growth ambitions. the stock option plan awarded  2017, the general meeting-authorized share capital iv was 
to the management board balances risk (total loss) and  the company also grants the management board  members  used.3 
opportunities (upside without cap), thereby ensuring har- accident insurance with coverage of € 350,000 in the case 
monization with the interest of shareholders. of death and € 800,000 in the case of disability. addition- under the sop 2017 the beneficiaries receive share option 
ally, the company assumes the costs of a preventive med- rights that have an individual exercise price that depends 
the supervisory board will regularly review and adjust the  ical examination every two years. on the date on which those rights were granted. the vest-
compensation system to take account of the company’s  ing period of the granted options is four years. in part, the 
further development.  in addition, mr. östberg has been granted a personal bud- granted stock options can be exercised after the first two 
get of € 25,000 annually, which, subject to presentation of  years of the vesting period (“cliff”). all other options vest 
the structure of the compensation system receipts, covers the costs for commuting between his place  during the remaining two years of the vesting period. the 
the current compensation system for management board  of residence and place of work. options have to be exercised two years after the end of 
members consists of two main components: the non-per- the four-year vesting period at the latest (“exercise 
formance-based salary and a long-term performance-based  period”). the exercise requires a share price higher than 
compensation component. consequentially, the variable  the exercise price at the exercise date. instead of equity 
compensation is provided for a multi-year period as rec- settlement, the company reserves the right to cash settle 
ommended by dcgk. the vested options, however the company aims for equity 
settlement. in case of cash settlement the beneficiary 
receives for each option right an amount equal to the dif-
ference between the share price at the time of exercise 
and the exercise price. only during the exercise periods 
specified by the company option rights can be exercised. 
it was not permitted to exercise options during the first 
year after the ipo.
3  for detailed information about sop 2017 and other share-based compensation 
programs refer to section h.01. of the consolidated financial statements.
38
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
since 2018, the performance-based compensation consists  the performance period of four years in total begins one  option rights may be exercised is not capped in order to 
of a new long-term incentive plan (ltip).  year before the grant date and runs for three more years.  support a strong alignment with the interests of the share-
holders. because of equity settlement, the absence of a 
under the ltip, the performance-based compensation is  the exercisability of the sop after the blocking period  cap on the share price imposes no additional risks or costs 
granted in the form of a stock option plan that is settled  depends on the achievement of a revenue growth target.  on the company. hence no maximum value is provided for 
in shares. contractually, a target value of stock options in  the performance target is derived from the company’s  the sop. in the event of extraordinary events, however, the 
euro is granted annually. the commitment is binding for  corporate strategy. it is defined as a compound annual rev- supervisory board can, as called for in § 87 (1) sentence 3 
four years. to calculate the number of stock options (sops)  enue growth rate (cagr) of at least 20% over the perfor- aktg, set a limit to ensure the appropriateness of the com-
granted in a financial year, the annual target value in euro  mance period, i.e., an average revenue growth of 20%  pensation.
is divided by the fair value of an sop at the grant date. the  annually. should this target not be reached, all sops expire 
calculated number of sops granted is blocked for a period  without substitute or compensation. special compensation
for four years from the date on which they are granted.  in the current and previous year no special compensation 
subsequently, an exercise period of two years is provided.  there are two exercise windows each year within the two- was granted. in 2018 the second tranche of mr.  thomassin’s 
the members of the management board do not receive  year exercise period. the exercise price is the equivalent  special bonus granted in 2017 for his extraordinary efforts 
any shares in the form of “restricted stock units” (rsu), as  of delivery hero’s average share price during the three  in connection with the ipo process became payable. 
is customary in the general ltip. months before the grant date. the share price at which the 
long-term incentive program (ltip)
target value  
in €
/
fair value  
per option
=
number of   strike price (average for 3 months before granting)
granted option
performance period 4 years 
(cagr revenue growth)
blocking period 4 years exercise period 2 years
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
39
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
pension commitments in the event of a change of control, the management board  the management board members’ contracts provide a 
no pension arrangement with management board  member has the right to resign from his office with three  post-contractual non-competition clause for two years. 
 members exist. months’ notice. his employment agreement will also end  during the non-compete period the management board 
at that time. a change of control is present if: member is entitled to a waiting allowance equal to 50% 
payments at the end of management board   of the remuneration lastly received. other remuneration 
service —  the company is delisted; earned during the term of the non-compete period is off-
in the event that a management board member dies before  —  the management board member’s appointment is  set with the waiting allowance to the extent that the total 
the term of his service contract ends, the spouse of the  terminated by a change in the company’s form or by a  of the waiting allowance and the other remuneration 
deceased is entitled to a grant of the unreduced remuner- merger of the company with another company, unless  would exceed the remuneration lastly received according 
ation for the month of death and the six following months,  an appointment as member of the management board  to the contract.
but for no longer than the end of the original term of the  of the new company on equal economic terms as 
service contract. before is offered to the management board member; loans and advances
—  an intercompany agreement according to §§ 291 et seqq  the management board members have not received 
if the service relationship ends early due to dismissal or  aktg is made with the company as a dependent  advances or loans in 2019.
resignation from office, or as a result of a termination  company, or the company is integrated according to 
agreement, then the management board members are  §§ 319 et seqq aktg; disclosures pursuant to the requirements  
entitled to severance pay. this does not apply in the event  —  a shareholder or third party directly or indirectly  of dcgk
that, in accordance with § 626 bgb, the company termi- acquires at least 30% of the voting rights in the  the following tables follow the recommendations of dcgk 
nates the employment agreement for good cause for which  company, including the voting rights that are attribut- and present the individualized management board mem-
the management board member is responsible, respec- able to the shareholder or third party according to § 30  bers’ compensation. the table “granted benefits” presents 
tively, in the event that the management board member  wpüg (wertpapiererwerbs- und übernahme gesetz,  the target values (the value of the compensation at 100% 
terminates the employment agreement without good  german securities acquisition and takeover act). target achievement) of the compensation components that 
cause (§ 626 bgb) for which the company is responsible.  were granted in financial year 2019, not the compensation 
the severance pay may not exceed the value of two years’  in the event of a resignation from office or dismissal due  that was actually paid. the value of the performance-based, 
total compensation and may equate at a maximum to the  to the change of control, mr. thomassin is entitled to a  share-based compensation components reflects the grant 
compensation for the remaining term of contract (sever- remuneration in the amount of 150% of the severance cap,  date fair values. besides the target  values, minimum and 
ance pay cap). the severance provision thus complies with  which may not under any circumstances remunerate more  maximum compensation amounts to the extent applica-
the recommendation of dcgk. than the remaining term of the employment agreement.  ble are also shown. the table “payout” shows the com-
this provision is likewise in compliance with the relevant  pensation actually paid in financial year 2019. the values 
recommendation of dcgk. “base salary” and “fringe benefits” correspond to the val-
ues in the “granted benefits” table, as they are paid irre-
spective of whether the performance targets are achieved.
40
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
granted benefits  
niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin
ceo cfo
eur k 2018 2019 2019 (min) 2019 (max) 2018 2019 2019 (min) 2019 (max)
 
base salary 250.0 325.0 325.0 325.0 250.0 325.0 325.0 325.0
fringe benefits 25.0 25.0 0.0 25.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
sum 275.0 350.0 325.0 350.0 250.0 325.0 325.0 325.0
special bonus 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
multi-year variable compensation 1,000.0 2,202.6 0.0 n/a 500.0 1,101.3 0.0 n/a
ltip (4 year plan term) 1,000.0 2,202.6 0.0 n/a 500.0 1,101.3 0.0 n/a
total compensation 1,275.0 2,552.6 325.0 n/a 750.0 1,426.3 325.0 n/a
payout 
niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin
ceo cfo
eur k 2018 2019 2018 2019
 
base salary 250.0 325.0 250.0 325.0
fringe benefits 25.0 25.0 0.0 0.0
sum 275.0 350.0 250.0 325.0
special bonus 0.0 0.0 150.0 1 0.0
multi-year variable compensation 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,190.0
vsp/sop 2017 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,190.0
ltip (4 year plan term) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
total compensation 275.0 350.0 400.0 1,515.0
1  in the previous year mr. thomassin was paid the second tranche of a special bonus granted in 2017 for his extraordinary efforts in connection with the ipo process.        
41
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
in the financial year, members of the management board  2019 
became entitled to a one-time grant of ltip options of   
€ 1,054 k, of which € 703 k relates to niklas östberg and  non-performance-based  performance-based  
eur k
 components components
€ 351 k to emmanuel thomassin. in the previous year, mem-
bers of the management board became entitled to four  ltip
annual tranches of ltip with an annual grant of € 1,500 k,  number  
thereof € 1,000 k were granted to niklas östberg and € 500  base   fringe   special   allocation  of shares/  fair  
acting board members salary benefits bonus value1 options2 value3  total
k were granted to emmanuel thomassin. during the finan-
 
cial year, 40,000 options were exercised and sold by 
niklas östberg 325.0 25.0 0.0 2,202.6 221,669 2,202.6 2,552.6
emmanuel thomassin resulting in a payout of € 1,190 k. in 
emmanuel thomassin 325.0 0 0.0 1,101.3 110,833 1,101.3 1,426.3
the previous year, no previously granted compensation 
components were exercised. there are still outstanding  total 650.0 25.0 0.0 3,303.9 332,502 3,303.9 3,978.9
options, which have been granted in previous years but  1  in the financial year, the ltip commitments from the previous year were raised for niklas östberg for the 2019 tranche to € 1,500 k and for the  
have not yet been exercised and may be exercised in 2020  tranches of 2020 and 2021 to € 2,500 k (previously € 1,000 k each). the ltip commitments from the previous year for emmanuel thomassin were increased 
to € 750 k for the 2019 tranche and to € 850 k for the tranches of 2020 and 2021 (previously € 500 k each). besides there was a one-off commitment in  
or the following years.  the amount of € 703 k for niklas östberg and in the amount of € 351 k for emmanuel thomassin.
2  number of options granted, subject to the achievement of the performance target. information relates to the commitment for 2019.  
the number of future options can only be made during the respective allocation years, as these are dependent on future share prices.
disclosures pursuant to the german gaap  3  fair value at the grant date (date of the legally binding commitment). information on the valuation model can be found in the notes to the 
 consolidated financial statements.
(“hgb”)
according to the applicable international accounting stan-
dards, compensation for the management board members  2018 
in financial year 2019 came to € 4.0 million (previous year: 
€ 2.2 million), of which non-performance-based compo- non-performance-based  performance-based  
eur k  components components
nents accounted for € 0.7 million (previous year: 
€ 0.5 million) and performance-based components  ltip
accounted for € 3.3 million (previous year: € 1.7 million). number  
base   fringe   special   allocation  of shares/  fair  
acting board members salary benefits bonus value1 options2 value3  total
the individualized total compensation received by the 
 
management board members, broken down by non-per-
niklas östberg 250.0 25 0.0 1,000 103,156 1,000.0 1,275.0
formance-based and performance-based compensation 
emmanuel thomassin 250.0 0 150.0 500 51,578 500.0 900.0
components, can be seen in the following tables. 
total 500.0 25.0 150.0 1,500 154,734 1,500.0 2,175.0
1  in 2018, members of the executive board were granted stock options worth € 1,500 k for the next four years  
(of which € 1,000 k each year is to niklas östberg and € 500 k each year is to emmanuel thomassin).
2  number of options granted, subject to the achievement of the performance target. information relates to the commitment for 2018  
(€ 1,000 k niklas östberg and € 500 k emmanuel thomassin). the number of future options can only be made during the respective allocation years,  
as these are dependent on future share prices.
3  fair value at the grant date (date of the legally binding commitment). information on the valuation model can be found in the notes to the 
 consolidated financial statements.
42
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
the expense from share-based compensation recognized  stock options sop 2018
in 2019 amounted to € 5.1 million (previous year:  niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin
€ 1.2 million) for mr. östberg and € 2.4 million (previous  weighted average  number of   weighted average  number of  
year: € 0.6 million) for mr. thomassin. exercise price in eur  options  exercise price in eur  options 
outstanding stock options  
in 2019, a total of 221,669 new stock options in the amount  as of jan. 1 2018  5.71   846,600   11.67   390,000 
of € 2.2 million were granted under the ltip to mr. östberg.  granted in the reporting period n/a – n/a –
mr. thomassin was granted a total of 110,833 new stock  forfeited in the reporting period n/a – n/a –
options in the amount of € 1.1 million in 2019. the option 
exercised in the reporting period n/a – n/a –
rights can be exercised in financial year 2023 at the ear-
expired in the reporting period n/a – n/a –
liest. in the previous year, a total of 103,156 new stock 
outstanding stock options  
options in the amount of € 1.0 million were granted under 
as of jan. 1 2019  5.71   846,600   11.67   390,000 
the ltip to mr. östberg. mr. thomassin was granted a total 
granted in the reporting period n/a – n/a –
of 51,578 new stock options in the amount of € 0.5 million 
forfeited in the reporting period n/a – n/a –
in 2018. the option rights granted to the management 
board members and outstanding are shown below: exercised in the reporting period n/a –  5.00   40,000
expired in the reporting period n/a – n/a –
outstanding stock options  
as of dec. 31 2019 5.71 846,600  12.43   350,000 
exercisable on dec. 31 2019 n/a – n/a –
43
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
stock options ltip  payments at the end of management board service
niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin in the event of early termination of management board 
weighted average  number of   weighted average  number of   services before the applicable performance period of a 
exercise price   options   exercise price   options    current sop tranche ends, the sops expire without substi-
in eur  in eur 
tute or compensation in the following cases:
outstanding stock options  
as of jan. 1 2018  n/a   –  n/a  –
—  revocation of the appointment for good cause
granted in the reporting period  38.30   103,156   38.30   51,578 
—   revocation of the appointment without good cause 
forfeited in the reporting period n/a – n/a – in the first year of the first contractual four-year 
exercised in the reporting period n/a – n/a –  commitment
expired in the reporting period n/a – n/a – —   the management board member’s resignation  
from office in the first two years of any contractual 
outstanding stock options  
commitment
as of jan. 1 2019  38.30   103,156   38.30   51,578 
granted in the reporting period  36.89   221,669   36.89   110,833 
otherwise the management board members are entitled 
forfeited in the reporting period n/a – n/a – to the already non-forfeitable sop at the normal end of 
exercised in the reporting period n/a – n/a – the blocking period.
expired in the reporting period n/a – n/a –
compensation of members of the  
outstanding stock options  
as of dec. 31 2019  37.34   324,825   37.34   162,411  supervisory board of delivery hero se
exercisable on dec. 31 2019 n/a – n/a – the compensation received by the members of the super-
visory board is specified in § 15 of the articles of association 
of delivery hero se. the members of the supervisory board 
former management board members’   receive its unreduced remuneration for six months, but no  receive a fixed annual salary of € 15,000. the chairman of 
compensation longer than the term of its employment. mr.  thomassin is  the supervisory board receives an annual fixed salary in the 
as of the balance sheet date, delivery hero se has no pen- entitled to receive for another six months, but no longer  amount of € 150,000 (previous year: € 75,000), while the 
sion recipients or other beneficiaries among its former  than the term of his employment, a payment of 80% of his  deputy chairman receives a fixed salary in the amount of 
executive board members or management board mem- remuneration. € 20,000. the chairman of the audit committee receives 
bers. total remuneration for former management board  additionally a fixed annual salary of € 15,000. the other 
members and their survivors, along with pension liabili- both management board members are covered by the com- chairmen of committees additionally receive a fixed annual 
ties to former management board members and their sur- panyʼs directorsʼ and officersʼ liability insurance with a stan- remuneration of € 5,000. 
vivors, therefore amount to € 0. dard coverage level. the insurance provides a minimum 
deductible of 10% of any claim up to a maximum of 150%  in addition, all out-of-pocket expenses incurred in the per-
other provisions of the fixed annual salary, as prescribed by the german  formance of the duties as a supervisory board member as 
in the event of a temporary incapacity to work because of  stock corporation act. well as a the value added tax on the supervisory board com-
illness, accident or other reason for which the management  pensation are reimbursed.
board member is not at fault, the member continues to 
44
corporate  governance 
annual report 2019
for service in a committee of the supervisory board an 
annual salary of € 2,000 is granted in addition. the commit-
tee chairman receives no additional committee salary.
the individual values for the financial year are shown in the 
following table.
fixed salary committee compensation total compensation
eur 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
 
dr. martin enderle  150,000   75,000   14,000   9,058   164,000   84,058 
patrick kolek  20,000   9,027   21,000   15,090  41,000  24,118 
hilary gosher (from 13.07.2018)  15,000   7,068   7,000   1,677   22,000   8,745 
vera stachowiak (from 13.07.2018)  15,000   7,068   2,000   838   17,000   7,907 
björn ljungberg (from 13.07.2018)  15,000   7,068   2,000   838   17,000   7,907 
christian graf von hardenberg (from 01.04.2019)  11,301  – – –  11,301  –
semih yalcin (from 13.07.2018 until 01.04.2019)  3,740  – –  7,068   3,740   7,068 
georg graf von waldersee (until 13.07.2018) – – –  15,945  –  15,945 
jeff liebermann (until 13.07.2018) –  10,630  –  2,126  –  12,756 
jonathan green (until 13.07.2018) –  7,973  – – –  7,973 
janis zech (from 06.06.2018 until 13.07.2018) –  1,562  – – –  1,562 
total  230,041   125,397   46,000   52,641   276,041   178,038 
in 2019, a total of € 6,525 (previous year: € 28,053) has been 
reimbursed for expenses.
in 2019, a total of 7,381 new stock options in the amount of 
€ 75,000 were granted under the ltip to christian graf von 
hardenberg, member of the supervisory board. in addition, 
a total of 663 shares in the form of rsus in the amount of 
€ 25,000 were granted.
45
non-financial statement  
for the group
annual report 2019
non-
corporate governance, responsibility and  in 2019, our focus was building the strategies for each of 
 sustainability  our csr and sustainability pillars and laying the founda-
tions for global projects. we expanded our program, which 
financial
letter from the ceo  now includes the following four pillars:
statement  fellow shareholders and heroes, —   environment: sustainable packaging and emissions
—   diversity & inclusion (d&i): inclusive leadership, 
for delivery hero to be successful over the long term, we   equitable systems, inclusive culture, empowered 
for the  need to live our values in addition to creating an amazing  employees
experience for our customers. a core part of living our val- —   ethics: rider welfare, health and safety, human rights
ues is taking responsibility for our impact in the world and  —   giving back: volunteering, meal donations, hero 
group
working towards ensuring our contribution is a positive  month
one. i am pleased to say we have made great progress in 
this area by developing our corporate social responsibil- our global brands are also involved in many of the initia-
ity, sustainability, and diversity and inclusion programs. tives that we have put forward in 2019, particularly 
 sustainable packaging, emissions, meal donations and 
delivery hero is is a leader in the food delivery and market- inclusive culture. while we have much more work to do, i 
place industry and is growing quickly. we also want to be  am excited about the opportunities for delivery hero to 
a leader in our industry for sustainability and set a stan- create a positive impact in the world. our ambitious goals 
dard for using sustainable business approaches. to make  will push us towards delivering excellence and long-term 
sure that we grow responsibly and sustainably, we have  success.
further developed some key initiatives that provide sustain-
able solutions for our business. i have personally joined  please find in the following overview a summary of what 
the leaders for climate action in 2019 and prioritized an  we have achieved in 2019 and our plans for the future.
environmental program to offset and reduce our carbon 
emissions. delivery hero has now committed to being car- yours,
bon neutral globally by 2021. niklas östberg
46
non-financial statement  
for the group
annual report 2019
sustainability and corporate social 
 responsibility at delivery hero
sustainable thinking and action based on fixed values and 
principles – these are essential foundations of delivery  
hero’s success. we seek to contribute to creating stable 
economic, social and ecological conditions for present and 
future generations by accepting the responsibility for the 
impacts of our business. in this way, we are following the 
principles of sustainable development.
47
non-financial statement  
for the group
annual report 2019
strategy and materiality the original materiality analysis, which was carried out in  in late 2019, we undertook an additional materiality 
in 2019, we enhanced the strategic direction of our sus- 2018, assesses and prioritizes the relevance of social, envi-  analysis to review how we classify and categorize our mate-
tainability and corporate social responsibility (csr) pro- ronmental and governance issues for delivery hero and  rial issues. as a result, we have changed the names of the 
grams. we developed strategic frameworks for the three  its stakeholders. the results from the 2018 assessment were  material issues and now have ten material topics identi-
pillars created in 2018: “environment,” “diversity & inclu- used to support the organization’s csr decision-making  fied, which are outlined in the image of the materiality 
sion” (d&i) and “giving back.” we also chose to prioritize  and strategy development process. from this process, the  matrix.
business ethics and safety by adding a new pillar called  material topics that are able to affect the value creation 
“ethics.” the following graphic gives an overview of our  for the company, and at the same time, are recognized as 
strategic csr approach and its underlying intentions. being important for delivery  hero’s different stake holders 
were selected.
our pillars
environment diversity  ethics giving
& inclusion back
sustainable packaging inclusive leadership  rider welfare  volunteering
emissions equitable systems  health and safety meal donations
inclusive culture  human rights  hero month
empowered employees
48
non-financial statement  
for the group
annual report 2019
delivery hero’s materiality matrix issue 
identification
1. 
high
 regulatory  external 
data management relevance impact
6.  2. 
environment
materiality 
packaging evaluation 
d o laws & 
nr regulations process
tal ary he social impact human rights  matemriaatlritixy  5.  3.  iimntpearcntal 
ne employee experience & 
ev diversity 4. 
mli safety
nde high stakeholder 
iroof  cquusatloitmyer experience &  data management perception
nvt 
c
ea environment
conomic, ocial imp al and y hero srueplaptiloienrs &h ip management social impact pachkuamgianng rights t f1o.o l  ilsuosnwudeeed ird ttehalraneekwgte usfi l fi&oatt cilholanoestw iroeinnv:gi ie dswtee npotsfifi :mcaattieornia ol fi tshsue etos pinic s2 0th1a9t,  awree  
es medium tr potentially relevant for delivery hero
ne employee experience & 
ev diversity
nmeli 2. e saxfetteyrnal impact: internal evaluation of the level of 
d
imstapkoerhtaonldcee rtso   low iroof   ehcqcueuosartloonitmyo’serm  bexiupces,r iieennnecevs &sir  oacntmiveitnietasl  oann de ascohc itaol pimicpact of delivery  
low ··· mnvedict um high
, epa 3.  internal impact: internal evaluation of the impact of each 
icm impact on delivery hero's business of the topics on delivery hero’s vision, strategy and per-
nomal i srueplaptiloienrs &h ip management formance, taking into consideration magnitude and 
oci probability of occurrence
co
es medium
4. s takeholder perception: evaluation of how important 
stakeholders believe the topics are
importance to 
stakeholders 
low
low ··· medium high
impact on delivery hero's business
49
non-financial statement  
for the group
annual report 2019
5. m  ateriality matrix: review of the materiality matrix,  6.  regulatory relevance: allocation of the material topics  stakeholders engagement
which maps the issues based on economic, environmen- to non-financial aspects in accordance to the csr direc- our stakeholders are key to our business, therefore, build-
tal and social impacts of delivery hero to the impact on  tive implementation act ing and maintaining a close relationship with them is criti-
delivery hero’s business  cal to our success. to define and implement a sustainability 
and csr strategy, delivery hero developed a stakeholders’ 
consultation and engagement process through which we 
material topics and contents  actively collect their expectations and ideas, on an ongo-
of the non-financial statement ing basis. this enables key stakeholder participation to help 
us define and evaluate our csr strategy, which is constantly 
updated with their feedback in an agile manner.
non-financial aspects material topics page maintaining good relationships with suppliers and restau-
rants helps our business grow. material items such as on- 
cross-cutting issue, affects all non-financial aspects  laws & regulations time payments, fair treatment and timely onboarding con-
(environmental matters, employee matters, respect  data management tribute towards successful relationships. in addition, at the 
for human rights, social matters, anti-corruption  supplier & relationship management
and bribery matters) end of 2019, we began developing a code of conduct for 
our suppliers to promote responsible business practices 
and minimize financial, reputational and supply chain risks. 
packaging
environmental matters p. 52
environment
employee experience & diversity p. 53–54
employee matters
safety p. 55
respect for human rights human rights p. 55
social matters social impact p. 56–57
additional-non financial aspect customer experience & quality p. 51
50
non-financial statement  
for the group
annual report 2019
delivery hero's stakeholders customer experience & quality
the experience we give customers when they use our plat-
form and receive deliveries from us has a material impact 
investors and shareholders customers
on our business. customer experience can include a vari-
ety of items such as the user interface of an app, delivery 
we are committed to growing and increasing   we are focused on improving our customers’ lives   times, transparency of ingredients, price and restaurant 
the return on investment of our investors by providing amazing and innovative services   choice.
and good food
  whether or not a customer is satisfied with the experience 
reports, investor meetings, dedicated   satisfaction surveys, social media, brand   will determine how likely he or she is to order again and 
e-mail communications  studies (focus groups + surveys)  to recommend the brand. that’s why our global customer 
experience team designed a process to work with our 
brands around the globe on understanding and improv-
employees restaurant partners and suppliers 
ing customer experience. one main part of this process is 
analyzing the drivers of customer loyalty, measured by a 
we want to motivate and engage our people   we intend to implement high social, ethical and   nps (net promoter score), which reflects why customers 
so they can achieve their maximum  environmental standards in all relationships with   order from our brands. 
our partners and suppliers 
engagement survey, performance management process,   environment
all-hands/update meetings, supervisory board representation engagement surveys (restaurant nps), account management  we are committed to making our business more environ-
operations, supplier onboarding mentally friendly and minimizing the negative impacts of 
our activities. our sector impacts the environment primar-
ily through the greenhouse gas emissions we and our part-
local community  regul ators ners emit, as well as the plastic used in food packaging. to 
manage these impacts, we developed a strategic frame-
work for the environment program in 2019, focusing on 
we are determined to improve the communities   we are interested in maintaining an open dialogue 
packaging and emissions.
where we operate and work in with regulators and being compliant with 
 
 legislation and regulation 
volunteering program, conferences, partne rships
dialogue with regulators in local markets 
why is the stakeholder important? examples of engagement activities/resources
51
non-financial statement  
for the group
annual report 2019
our achievements in 2019:  supply packaging to restaurants. in 2019, we laid out the  climatepartner, which supported the development of our 
—   designed a globally scalable sustainable packaging pro- groundwork to model, design and test the concept of a  methodology and measurement of our footprint. our meth-
gram, which will launch with a pilot in q3 2020 scalable sustainable packaging program. we sourced and  odology is informed by the greenhouse gas protocol and 
—   field tested sustainable packaging products to ensure  field-tested packaging solutions to find the best products  we differentiate between emissions (scope 1 – 3 ) that are 
solutions will meet the rigors of food delivery to rollout. in 2020, we will be piloting the project in selected  directly caused by delivery hero, i.e., our own delivery 
—   identified preferred sustainable packaging providers markets to gain further insights into finding the best  fleets, materials we sell to restaurants, our internal opera-
—   invested in bio-lutions, a biodegradable packaging  approach to roll it out globally. tions, and the emissions caused by our partners, e.g., pack-
manufacturer aging sourced by restaurants from third parties, our restau-
—   measured our carbon footprint for european entities  in may 2019, we also invested in bio-lutions interna- rant partners delivery activities, etc. we want to ensure that 
in 2019 tional ag, which produces sustainable packaging and dis- we have an accurate understanding of which emissions we 
—   achieved carbon neutrality across our european oper- posable tableware made from agricultural residues. our  can operationally reduce as we directly control them, com-
ations on january 1, 2020 investment is an important step towards creating sustain- pared to the emissions that are created in relation to our 
—   committed to be carbon neutral globally by 2021 able packaging options within our supply chain. activities but without our direct control.
packaging emissions our management approach to this topic is centralized, as 
food ordered through our platforms is packaged for deliv- like most organizations, our activities and those of our sup- calculating an accurate greenhouse gas footprint requires 
ery, which historically has been made from plastic due to  ply chain and partners emit greenhouse gases. as global  special expertise and we want to ensure a consistent meth-
cost and availability of the raw material. we recognize the  warming is an issue impacting the world, we believe that  odology is used. therefore, we have a project team in our 
impact that plastic has on the environment, whether that’s  we have a responsibility to limit the impact of these emis- central team at delivery hero se that collects data from our 
from the emissions made during its manufacturing or the  sions. we believe action starts with commitment. we set  local businesses and works with the consultancy to calcu-
lasting presence of plastic after the packaging is discarded.  an ambition to become carbon neutral by the end of 2021.  late the greenhouse gas footprint (in t co equivalent). 
2
we want to find solutions that can reduce this impact. our approach is to measure our footprint so we can iden- where accurate data is not available, we use estimations 
  tify the areas to offset, because this will minimize the impact  in line with common and accepted approaches.
our restaurant partners source their packaging materials  of our emissions footprint quickly. we then explore oppor-  
independent of delivery hero. we have a connection to  tunities to reduce the emissions and lower the cost of  in 2019, the co  emissions of our berlin headquarters 
2
restaurants and believe we can help educate restaurants   offsetting. amount to 8,537 t co. we offset these emissions by sup-
2
about the sustainability of materials and provide access to  porting a forest protection project in peru. as we expand 
alternative and more sustainable forms of packaging. our effort in 2019 focused on completing the methodology  the measurement of our greenhouse gas footprint, we 
  for measuring co emissions, establishing the offsetting  intend to report the emissions.
2
the main way we’re doing this is by developing a globally  program and establishing the foundations of an environ-
scalable sustainable packaging program where we will  mental reduction program. we worked with our partner 
52
non-financial statement  
for the group
annual report 2019
working at delivery hero —   began a global rollout for unconscious bias training delivery hero’s approach to people operations continues 
delivery hero’s accomplishments and success are provided  —   integrated diversity and inclusion into our onboarding  to be both centralized and decentralized. we have deep-
by our highly engaged and qualified workforce around the  process ened the level of expertise within our central hr teams so 
world. attracting, developing and retaining highly skilled  —   facilitated the creation of two employee resource  that we deliver expert support globally, while building 
employees that are aligned to our values is important. we  groups regional hr centers of excellence to expand the support 
focus on creating a working environment with great con- —   delivery hero participated its first pride festival in  aligned to local market requirements and regulation. in 
ditions that are diverse, inclusive, equal and safe.  berlin 2019, we introduced “workday” to streamline our people 
systems processes. this is enabling us to manage a grow-
our achievements in 2019: delivery hero as an employer ing workforce more effectively, empowers our managers 
—   refreshed our corporate values globally delivery hero employs thousands of people across the  with the tools and data to lead their teams and supports 
—   achieved an employee net promoter score (enps) of 35 world. our work with restaurants drives further employ- the implementation of procedures such as standardized 
—   created a diversity & inclusion strategy and established  ment, helping to create jobs in the communities we oper- performance review processes. we will continue to rollout 
program ate in. we are a business that strives to be as diverse as the  “workday” regionally through 2020.
—   hosted tech and product meetups to showcase our  societies in which we operate. our culture encourages 
work and develop connections openness and respect with opportunities for anyone to  we offer various benefits that make our working environ-
—   trained more than 400 people at our headquarters in  share opinions and ideas. ment attractive. by providing benefits such as gym passes 
berlin about unconscious bias  and health checkups, we care for the well-being of our 
diversity & inclusion
employees. creating learning and development opportu-
nities linked to an annual budget of € 1,000 per full-time 
inclusive  equitable inclusive empowered equivalent employee helps us to thrive as an innovative and 
progressive company. on top of that, we offer individual 
leadership systems culture employees
corporate pension schemes to contribute to the long-term 
provision of our employees.
regarding our recruitment processes, we host various tech 
setting the tone from  ensuring parity in  learning how we can  enabling our employees to 
and product meetups to showcase our work, gain connec-
the top and leading by  hr and business  interact and celebrate  connect with each other and  tions and take on new employees. in 2019, we hosted 
example processes difference respectfully build a diverse and inclusive  25 tech and product meetups at our berlin headquarters.
environment
53
non-financial statement  
for the group
annual report 2019
diversity and equal opportunity for inclusive culture, we integrated d&i into our talent  delivery hero is committed to adhering to all global and 
delivery hero strives to be a diverse and inclusive company  development program to ensure the wide range of train- local regulation. this in particular includes compliance with 
that reflects the customers and markets we serve. through  ing provided to our people helped them manage their  the law for promotion of remuneration transparency 
diversity, we can develop the products, platforms and ser- unconscious biases and become more inclusive leaders.  between women and men (entgelttransparenzgesetz). the 
vices that engage our broad customer base most effectively,  we set a goal in 2019 to train all our people managers on  reports required under this law are published separately 
as well as motivate and engage our people. delivery hero  unconscious bias in 2020. by the end of 2019, we had  to this report.
is committed to providing equal opportunity to all employ- trained 68% of our managers at our headquarters and 70% 
ees so we can create an amazing employee experience for  of our managers within our mena businesses, and have a  further information on gender diversity at delivery hero 
everyone. global rollout plan for remaining regions.  and its subsequent goals regarding gender diversity of our 
management team, supervisory board and the two execu-
in 2019, we formalized our diversity & inclusion (d&i) pro- we believe an essential way to enable our employees to  tive levels directly below, please see the corporate 
gram and introduced a d&i strategy to define our approach  build an inclusive culture is to empower them through   governance report on page 22.
towards building a fair and unbiased working environment.  employee resource groups. at delivery hero, these are called 
our strategy comprises four parts: inclusive leadership,  hero communities. we were delighted that our people cre- employee satisfaction
equitable systems, inclusive culture and empowered  ated two hero communities in 2019. our “proud heroes”  having engaged employees at delivery hero is essential 
employees (see previous page).  provide our employees who identify with or support the  for us to achieve our ambitions. employee engagement 
lgbtqi+ community to unite. in 2019, the “proud heroes”  contributes towards employee retention, company growth, 
we conducted activities across the four parts of our d&i  worked closely with our d&i team to have delivery hero par- future recruitment and corporate culture. to understand 
program. our management team participated in an off-site  ticipate in its first csd pride event in berlin, germany, which  how we are performing and where we need to improve, 
workshop to establish the tone from the top and set out  is a parade to promote awareness and support for lgbtqi+  we conduct regular employee engagement surveys, using 
strategic goals for the company on diversity and inclusion.  rights. our muslim employees also organized themselves  employee net promoter score (enps). this indicator 
into the muslim heroes. they worked with internal teams  describes the loyalty and commitment of our employees 
for equitable systems, our d&i team worked with every  to run events during ramadan and to secure additional  to delivery hero. we use the results to create action plans 
part of the people operations department to audit hr and  prayer rooms in our berlin offices.  to address areas of improvement. in our last survey of 2019, 
business processes. where the potential for bias existed,  our enps for our berlin headquarters was 35 points with 
action plans were developed to better ensure parity and  an participation rate of 74%. we also continued to rollout 
equity.  the use of the employee engagement survey across our 
global entities with all parts of the business now using our 
 system. 
54
non-financial statement  
for the group
annual report 2019
ethics the safety of our riders is of great importance for delivery   mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics
ethical conduct is one of our highest priorities. our values,  hero. we are working towards introducing global stan- every employee at delivery hero is responsible for address-
principles and standards create trust – and this is what we  dards on safety to ensure greater consistency across our  ing violations or potential violations of the laws, the 
depend on to deliver excellent services to our customers. operations. delivery hero code of conduct or internal policies. to 
  report serious compliance breaches and illegal business 
we introduced new values in 2019 and these are being  human rights practices an online whistleblower platform was made avail-
rolled out across delivery hero. trust starts with our lead- we are fully committed to respecting human rights in  able in multiple languages and is available around the 
ers who are represented as role models for employees on  everything we do. we actively oppose forced or compul- clock. our whistleblower system guarantees anonymous 
ethical standards and norms of behavior. our business suc- sory labor of any kind, and all other forms of modern slav- submission and the highest level of security for whistle-
cess also depends on our employees acting in a moral and  ery, child labor and human trafficking. discrimination and  blowers. employees should first contact their super visor 
legally correct, responsible manner. these standards are  inequality in employment and occupation have no place  or their respective compliance department and make use 
reflected in our day-to-day business, in cooperation with  at delivery hero either. for us this is an integral and natu- of the whistleblower platform only in cases where this 
each other, our business partners, our investors and other  ral part of doing business anywhere. appears not possible. all reported issues are carefully 
stakeholders of delivery hero.  assessed by delivery hero and in appropriate cases, the 
laws & regulations case is managed as per the regulations and procedures for 
to emphasize the importance of integrity, we have included  we must be compliant with all laws and regulations in the  handling reported compliance concerns. the confidential-
ethics as a fourth pillar of our sustainability and csr  strategy. markets we operate. below, we outline some of the ethi- ity of information given by the individual reporting a com-
cal and legal standards we hold ourselves accountable to. pliance violation is protected to the maximum extent 
safety   possible. the recipient of the information of delivery hero 
delivery hero employs thousands of people globally and  values, principles, standards and norms of behavior may share it only on a need-to-know basis consistent with 
we want them to be safe at work, whether that’s in the  we act within the framework of ethics, integrity and appli- applicable law. delivery hero respects the request of 
office, on the roads or travelling. as such, occupational  cable laws and always in the interest of delivery hero.   confidentiality and anonymous reporting. the mechanisms 
health and safety is an important topic at delivery hero.  delivery hero does not tolerate any form of fraud, bribery/ for advice and concerns about ethics are assessed on a reg-
we provide training to our employees about how to avoid  corruption or other forms of non-compliant behavior by  ular basis. the sustainability and csr team continuously 
accidents and how to maintain a safe working environ- our employees or other stakeholders. we expect our  monitors and updates our ethics by integrating concerns 
ment for everyone.  employees not to engage in any activity or perform tasks  into business decisions.
that are contrary to the interests of delivery hero. all busi-
at our headquarters in berlin, we have many occupational  ness decisions need to be made solely in the best interests 
health and safety facilities for employees to use (specific  of the company, not for personal benefit. these business 
rooms for prayers, first aid and napping). in 2020, we are  practices have been documented in a code of conduct, 
building new spaces for employees that include a room  which is distributed within the organization and updated 
for yoga and a health center. we also provide the use of  regularly. the local companies are responsible for commu-
ergonomically friendly workstations, which have adjust- nicating about the code of conduct.
able desks, chairs and monitors to cater to specific needs. 
55
non-financial statement  
for the group
annual report 2019
data management  customers, which simplifies and guarantees the exercise  our achievements in 2019:
the growing competitiveness in the markets where  of the data subject rights. via this function, customers can  —   enabled customers to donate meals through our apps
delivery hero has operations requires an increasing focus  view the stored data, submit advertising objections and  —   introduced a new, simpler volunteering policy
on the customer, especially on the continuous improve- delete their accounts at any time. the deletion takes place  —   expanded our hero month volunteer campaign from 
ment of their experience. in a context of high digitaliza- within 48 hours by overwriting the personal data several  berlin to ten countries
tion and more informed, proactive and demanding cus- times. —   volunteered 3,343 hours globally during hero month
tomers, it becomes clear that technology should be used 
to achieve and ensure our clients maximum satisfaction,  delivery hero is committed to protecting the data of our  our giving back strategy seeks to create a positive social 
while handling their data with care. customers and employees. irrespective of external audits,  impact in three ways; by connecting our customers to 
systems that have been assessed as potentially risky accord- causes important to them: leveraging our capabilities and 
the privacy policies of the operating companies comply  ing to internal risk analyses are subjected to a data protec- systems for positive social impact; and by empowering our 
with the requirements of article 13 and 14 general data  tion impact assessment and continuously reviewed as part  people to give back.
protection regulation (gdpr). they are regularly checked  of a monitoring process. in addition, penetration tests are 
to ensure they are up to date and correct. carried out regularly and adjustments made, if needed.  fighting hunger is the key theme for our giving back pil-
lar. this is a cause important to our customers and is one 
we inform our customers and other stakeholders about  every employee has to complete compulsory data protec- that aligns well to our business. in 2019, efoods and hip-
the data collected when visiting our website and explain  tion training once a year and pass a test. besides that, the  menu, our brands in greece and romania, respectively, 
how this data is used. all customer care agents have been  acknowledgement of our code of conduct, which also con- offered customers the opportunity to donate meals to peo-
trained to deal appropriately with data subject requests  tains passages addressing data protection and information  ple in need. in 2019, efoods and hipmenu helped feed 
and necessary templates have been provided. personal  security, is mandatory. in addition, department-specific  approximately 126,321 people. we aim to expand the meal 
data is information from which we can directly or indirectly  training is carried out to take account of the relevant spe- donations program in 2020 to more platforms and  markets.
relate to a person, such as first and last name, location  cial requirements and to increase awareness.
data or e-mail address. to help our employees give back, we established a new 
giving back  volunteering policy that allows everybody at delivery hero 
our customers can exercise their data subject rights at any  delivery hero is driven by its values, one of which is “we  to contribute two working days per year to the commu-
time by sending their requests to the e-mail addresses  are heroes because we care”. social responsibility is at  nity. employees can use the allocated days throughout the 
specified in the privacy policies or to dpo@deliveryhero. the heart of this. we aim to provide the most impact for  year to volunteer with local non-profit organizations in 
com. these will then be answered after the verification of  society and the communities we operate in by strategically  groups or individually. 
identity within the legal deadline. on many platforms, a  aligning our giving back pillar with the strengths of our 
gdpr function was integrated into the accounts of the  business.
56
non-financial statement  
for the group
annual report 2019
an annual volunteering campaign which takes place in  delivery hero provides online and food delivery services  delivery hero seeks to recognize significant risks and 
october. we built on this in 2019 by expanding hero month  in over 44 countries in four geographical segments, com- opportunities that can influence the business at an early 
to ten countries, involving three more of our brands. glob- prising europe, middle east and north africa (mena), asia  stage. to achieve this, delivery hero has a management 
ally, our heroes volunteered more than 3,343 hours as part  and the americas. further information on delivery hero’s  system to identify and manage risks. the risk management 
of hero month. business model can be found in the group management  function is performed by the governance, risk & compli-
report 2019 on page 58. ance (grc) department.
reporting profile 
this non-financial statement for the group (nfs) of the  within the individual aspects, the underlying concepts and  delivery hero generally assesses risks from a net perspec-
delivery hero group (hereinafter referred to as delivery   due diligence processes are discussed and existing results  tive after taking risk-mitigating measures into account. in 
hero) has been prepared in accordance with the informa- are reported. in accordance with section 315b (1) sen- connection with the effects on delivery hero’s non-finan-
tion required under sections 315b, c and 289b to e of the  tence 3 hgb, reference is also made to non-financial infor- cial issues, no material risks were identified that are asso-
german commercial code (hgb) with regard to material,  mation in the combined management report on individ- ciated with the company’s own business activities or with 
environmental, employee, social and human rights, and  ual aspects. in addition, the nfs reports significant risks  its business relationships, products and services that have 
the fight against corruption and bribery. in accordance with section 289c (3) nos. 3 and 4 hgb if the  serious negative effects on non-financial issues.
information is necessary for an understanding of the 
in addition, this nfs has been prepared in orientation  course of business, the business result, the position of the  further information on risk management at delivery hero 
towards the gri standards issued by the global reporting  group and its effects on non-financial matters. can be found in the risk and opportunity report 2019 on 
initiative, this applies in particular to the description of  page 72.
our basic management approaches and to the materiality  delivery hero has not yet defined any non-financial per-
analysis performed. going forward, delivery hero intends  formance indicators relevant to management in accordance 
to expand the scope and depth of its reporting as its pro- with section 289c (3) no. 5 hgb. furthermore, there is no 
gram grows. until then, the sustainability and csr depart- direct connection between the amounts reported in the 
ment, investor relations and pr departments can help with  annual financial statements pursuant to section 289c (3) 
any questions about this nfs.  no. 6 hgb and non-financial concerns.
57
combined management report 
combined  
a. group profile page 59
  01. business model
  02. group structure
  03. segments
management     04. management system
  05. research and development
b. economic report page 62
  01. market and industry environment
report   02. business performance
  03.  net assets, financial position and results of operations 
  04. employees
c. risk and opportunity report page 72
  01. risk policy principles and risk strategy 
  02.  group-wide risk management system (“rms”)
  03.  system of internal financial reporting controls
  04. internal audit system
  05. risk report as of december 31, 2019
  06. opportunity report
d. outlook page 82
  01. macroeconomic and industry outlook
  02. company expectations
e. other disclosures page 83
  01.  takeover-related information pursuant to sections 289a  
and 315a of the german commercial code (hgb)
  02.  compensation report pursuant to section 162  
of german stock corporation act (aktg)
  03. corporate governance code
  04. non-financial report 
  05. treasury shares
f.  s upplementary management report to the separate 
financial statements of delivery hero se page 83
  01. business model
  02.   net assets, financial position and result of  
operations of the company
try out our interactive table of contents.  
you will be directed to the selected page.
combined management report 
annual report 2019
a. group profile delivery hero generates a large portion of its revenue from  in order to enhance clarity we mainly limited the disclo-
online marketplace services, primarily on the basis of  sures of the combined management report to those 
01. business model orders placed. the commission fees are based on a  required by law. therefore information on corporate strat-
 contractually specified percentage of the order value. the  egy is no longer included in this management report. infor-
delivery hero se (the “company”) and its consolidated sub-  percentage varies depending on the country, type of  mation on our corporate strategy is available on our web-
sidiaries, together delivery hero group (also “dh”,  restaurant and services provided, such as the use of a point  site and within other parts of the annual report.
“dh group”, “delivery hero” or “group”), provide online  of sale system, last mile delivery and marketing support. 
and food delivery services in over 40 countries and four  02. group structure
geographical segments, comprising europe, middle east  in addition to commissions, delivery hero generates 
and north africa (“mena”), asia and americas.  revenue from delivery fees and non-commission based  the parent company delivery hero se, with its head quarter 
 revenue in particular premium placements. premium place- in berlin, was founded in 2011 and has since expanded its 
the company has been trading as delivery hero se with  ment means that, for a fee, restaurants are ranked on top  presence in local markets worldwide with various brands. 
its registered office in berlin. further information on the  among all the listed restaurants in their relevant delivery  delivery hero group comprises 133 companies as of the 
group structure and segments can be found in the chap- area displayed in a specific manner. reporting date (previous year: 126 companies). for further 
ters “group structure” and “segments”. details, refer to section d.01. of the consolidated financial 
in the second half of 2019 delivery hero accelerated the  statements. delivery hero se exercises either direct or indi-
the subsidiaries of the group operate internet platforms  rollout of delivery-only stores (“dark stores”). through our  rect control over all subsidiaries.
under various brand names, where users of the platform  delivery platforms, customers are offered online a broad 
are referred to restaurants as well as other vendors and  variety of stock keeping units (skus) that are delivered to  03. segments
provided with on-demand delivery services. the  the customer in less than 15 minutes on average.
delivery hero internet platforms are aligned to the  the business of delivery hero is divided into the following 
demands of the local end customers who can choose from  alongside the management of the group, delivery hero se  four geographical segments: 
a wide range of menu items from restaurants in their  assumes a range of it, marketing and other services, in 
neighborhood. orders can be placed by app or via web- particular commercial and technical consultancy services.  —  mena (middle east and north africa)
site and are subsequently paid either in cash or via online  in addition, as the holding company, delivery hero se  —  asia
payment methods. as an option, delivery hero offers its  assumes functions such as group controlling and account- —  americas
partner restaurants a point of sale system in order for them  ing,  public relations, investor relations, risk management  —  europe
to immediately view and accept orders made on the plat- and human resources management.
form. furthermore, delivery hero offers products and ser- the services and order platforms are suited to local  market 
vices for restaurants, such as food packaging, advertising  the delivery hero group’s business model is based on the  demand and the respective competitive situation.
and printing services. in addition to the online food order- vision of the management team to provide platform users 
ing platforms, the group also offers own delivery services  with an amazing on-demand experience. this includes  the mena segment includes turkey, while canada is part 
to restaurants without this capability. the own delivery  appealing and seamless handling of the order as well as  of the americas segment. in the prior year, the asia seg-
fleet is coordinated using proprietary dispatch software. first-class quality of food and a top delivery service. ment included australia, which was closed in the third 
quarter 2018.
59
combined management report 
annual report 2019
mena americas as of april 1, 2019, the sale of the german food delivery 
in the mena segment, delivery hero is represented in the  in the americas segment, delivery hero operates in  eleven  businesses to takeaway.com n.v., including all three brands 
markets of bahrain, dubai, egypt, jordan, the kingdom of  geographical markets, including canada, where the group  (pizza.de, lieferheld, and foodora) was completed (refer 
 saudi arabia (ksa), kuwait, oman, qatar and the united  is represented with the foodora brand. to section a.02. and d.03.d) of the consolidated financial 
arab emirates (uae) with the brands talabat, carriage,  statements). the german food delivery business is exclud-
hungerstation and otlob.  in latin america, delivery hero operates primarily the  ed from the segment performance.
brands pedidosya and clickdelivery. pedidosya connects 
furthermore the mena segment includes turkey, the most  customers and restaurants in argentina, bolivia, chile,  04. management system
mature of our food delivery markets in the mena segment,   paraguay and uruguay. clickdelivery operates in c olumbia, 
where the group is represented with its yemeksepeti  ecuador and peru. in panama delivery hero is present with  delivery hero se’s management board consists of two 
brand. in 2019 in turkey the brand banabi was established  the brand appetito24. members. the management board is responsible for the 
in connection with the rollout of delivery-only stores (dark  strategy and management of the group. the ceo niklas 
stores). in 2019 the footprint in the americas segment was enlarged  östberg is responsible for the areas strategy, operations, 
by acquisition of movil media s.r.l., dominican republic,  technology, personnel, marketing, public relations and 
in february 2019, the group acquired the food delivery  (“delivery rd”), the leading online food delivery business  investor relations. emmanuel thomassin is responsible for 
business of zomato media private ltd. (“zomato”) in uae,  in the dominican republic operating under the brand  the areas finance, purchasing, legal, and internal audit, 
which has been included in the mena segment since then.  “deliveryrd”. as well as governance, risk and compliance. the super-
visory board advises and supervises the management 
asia europe board. the supervisory board is involved in transactions 
the group has a strong presence in south korea where the  in the europe segment, delivery hero operates with both  of funda mental importance to the company.
group operates mainly the brand yogiyo.  business models – marketplace as well as own delivery – 
and is  represented in austria, bosnia and herzegovina, 
further asian markets in which delivery hero group was   bulgaria, croatia, cyprus, the czech republic, finland, 
present with its foodpanda brand during the reporting  greece, hungary,  montenegro, norway, romania, serbia 
period comprise various high-growth markets such as  and sweden with their local brands.
 bangladesh, hong kong, malaysia, pakistan, the philip-
pines, singapore, taiwan and thailand. the businesses are  in april 2019, delivery hero strategically invested in the 
operating either an own delivery model or mixed models,  swedish market by acquiring restaurangonline sverige ab 
which provide both own delivery and marketplace services.  and its subsidiary hungry delivery ab (together referred 
further, at the end of 2019 the group started operations  to as “hungrig group”). in july 2019, aa foody cyprus ltd. 
in laos, myanmar and cambodia. (“foody”), the leading restaurant marketplace for food 
delivery in cyprus, operating under the brand name foody, 
was acquired.
60
combined management report 
annual report 2019
the management board steers the group both at a segment  change  innovation and technology is further aiming to enhance 
fy 2019 fy 2018 in %
level (i.e., europe, mena, asia and americas) and group  the value of our restaurant partners by improving the 
level. the key financial performance indicators monitored     forecast of demand and supply, inventory management 
group
are total segment revenues1 and adjusted ebitda2. while  and enabling faster and better delivery and offering 
orders (million) 666.0 369.4 80.3
total segment revenue is indicative of the group´s ability   tailored marketing solutions. further, we are increasingly 
to grow and to provide attractive service offerings to its  gmv (eur million) 7,435.5 4,454.4 66.9 investing into the development of new payment solutions 
customers, adjusted ebitda indicates the groups ability to  (e.g., wallet solutions), machine learning, smart catalogue 
become profitable. management and data infrastructure. innovation and 
 technology is additionally focusing on the further autom-
delivery hero also uses non-financial performance indica- 05. research and development atization of operations, e.g., enhancing processes in cus-
tors to manage the group: tomer care, billing and rider onboarding.
our vision of always creating an amazing experience is 
—   orders3 is a key performance indicator that drives  contingent on constant innovation and technological  the research and development (r&d) activities of 
revenue and growth. in 2019, orders of the segments  development in all areas of the customer experience.  delivery hero are focusing on the challenges of providing 
increased by 80.3 %.  consequently, innovation and technology is focusing on  an exceptional on-demand experience today and in the 
—   gross merchandise value4 (gmv) is influenced by  the enhancement of the value for the platform users by  future. these challenges include the processing of millions 
the number of orders and has an instant impact on  refining our personalization, recommendation and search  of orders in near real time without glitches, responsible 
revenues. it is one of the key elements controlled  algorithms in order to provide more personalized offers,   collection of a staggering amount of data and coping with 
by our management. in 2019, gmv of the segments  order tracking and visibility, as well as facilitating discov- widely different local requirements across our markets. 
increased by 66.9 %.  ering of new restaurants and dishes and improving the 
user interface, performance and stability of our apps. the r&d activities continue to concentrate on the devel-
opment and enhancement of local technology and plat-
forms in order to provide highly localized solutions 
 combined with an approach of innovations by a central 
support function in:
1  total segment revenue is defined as revenue in accordance with ifrs 15,  3 orders represent orders made by end consumers in the period indicated.  —  data and analytics
excluding the effect of vouchers and other discounts. further, revenues for  orders for our south korean click-to-call operations (similar to a restaurant-
which the group acts as a principal are included on a net basis with  specific business directory where customers click on a button that will  —  logistics, including fleet management  
corresponding cost-of-sales to increase comparability to revenue from  connect them directly with the restaurant via telephone) have been  and driver/rider scheduling
transactions where the group acts as agent. estimated based on the number of phone calls made by users to restaurants 
—  marketing, crm and campaign automation 
2  performance measure not defined by international financial reporting  through these click-to-call platforms in the relevant period that lasted 25 
standards (ifrs). adjusted ebitda is defined as earnings from continuing  seconds or longer multiplied by 60 %. —  restaurant order transmission, driver tracking  
operations before income taxes, financial result, depreciation and  4 gmv refers to gross merchandise value, which means the total value of   and pos integration
amortization and non-operating earnings effects. non-operating earnings  orders (including vat) transmitted to restaurants. gmv for our click-to-call 
—  consumer experience
effects comprise, in particular (i) expenses for share-based compensation,   operations (similar to a restaurant-specific business directory where 
(ii) expenses for services in connection with corporate transactions and  customers click on a button that will connect them directly with the 
financing rounds, (iii) expenses for reorganization measures, (iv) expenses for  restaurant via telephone) have been estimated based on the estimated 
the implementation of information technology and (v) other non-operating  number of orders multiplied by the average basket size for the orders  
expenses and income, especially the result from disposal of tangible and  placed through our south korean non-click-to-call online marketplaces 
intangible assets, the result from the sale and abandonment of subsidiaries,  during the same period.
allowances for other receivables, and non-income taxes. adjusted ebitda 
excludes depreciation from right-of-use assets under ifrs 16 that were 
included in the prior period as corresponding rent expenses.
61
combined management report 
annual report 2019
in order to provide local solutions but also leveraging  growth assumptions cannot be maintained were raised.  4.9 % in 2020, broadly flat compared to 5.1 % growth in 
from our global platform, we follow a flexible approach  at that time it was analyzed that global growth might be  2019, before rebounding in 2021 as global trade stabilizes. 
with strong and agile regional tech teams in all our seg- significantly impacted by the worldwide outbreak of the  the outlook for south asia remains solid, with growth pick-
ments. the largest team is situated in berlin. coronavirus (covid-19) and might drop by 0.5% to 1.5%  ing up to 5.5 % in 2020 and 5.9 % in 2021. domestic demand 
compared to initial expectations – depending on the inten- growth is expected to remain robust with support from 
in 2019, r&d expenses of the group amounted to about  sity of the coronavirus outbreak. however, accelerated out- monetary and fiscal policy.
€ 65.0 million (previous year: € 42.2 million). this corre- breaks throughout europe and north and south america 
sponds to 5.1 % (previous year: 5.5 %) of revenue. devel- may have a more severe impact on the global economy.  americas
opment costs of € 13.0 million were capitalized (previous  research analysts project a significant contraction of gdp  after subdued growth of 0.8 % in 2019, reflecting challeng-
year: € 5.1 million), this represents 19.9 % (previous year:  of the us economy and the eurozone in the first and sec- ing conditions in several of the largest economies, the 
12.1 %) of total development costs of the year. amorti- ond quarters of 2020 with a potential to rebound in the  regional growth is expected to accelerate to 1.8 % in 2020, 
zation of capitalized development costs amounted to  third and fourth quarters of the year.6 the global growth  helped by a rebound in fixed investment and private 
€ 4.1 million (previous year: € 3.1 million). third-party r&d  prospects for 2020 are contingent on many aspects, includ-  consumption. argentina is projected to revert to positive 
services are used only to a minor extent. ing the duration and intensity of the outbreak, the effec- growth in 2020 as the effects of financial market pressures 
tiveness of public health measures and supportive macro- fade. 
at the end of the financial year, 1,289 people (previous  economic measures, and remain highly uncertain.7 
year: 906 people) were employed in our r&d activities.  since delivery hero has significant operations in countries 
this represents 5.2 % (previous year: 3.6 %) of total  below we examine the environment and outlook by region  outside of the eurozone, a substantial percentage of its 
 employees. based on the world bank global economic prospect report  sales, earnings and liabilities are denominated in curren-
as of december 31, 2019. 8, 9 cies other than the euro. delivery hero is therefore exposed 
to fluctuations in the values of these currencies relative to 
b. economic report mena  the euro. in the financial year 2019 delivery hero opera-
mena regional growth is projected to rise to 2.4 % in 2020,  tions in its mena and americas segments were adversely 
01. market and industry environment largely driven by a rebound in growth among oil export- impacted by the volatility and devaluation of some curren-
ers. growth among oil exporters is anticipated to pick up  cies, such as the turkish lira and the argentinian peso, 
global growth decelerated in 2019, with continued weak- to 2.0 % in 2020, supported by capital investment in the  respectively. 
ness in global trade and investment. however, as of decem- gcc. among oil importing economies, increasing growth 
ber 31, 2019, global growth was expected to recover to  is predicated on policy reform progress and healthy tour- since q3 2018, the americas segment’s revenues and 
2.5 % in 2020. moreover, growth was then projected to  ism prospects. growth rates were impacted by the argentinian operation 
gradually rise to 2.6 % by 2021, predicated on continued  qualifying as a hyperinflationary economy under ias 29, 
benign global financing conditions and a modest recovery  asia starting from the september 1, 2018 (refer to section b.14.b) 
in emerging market and developing economies. risks are  growth in the east asia and pacific region is projected to  of the consolidated financial statements). this assessment 
firmly on the downside, aside from the possibility of a fur- slow from 5.8 % in 2019 to 5.7 % in 2020. the year 2019  has remained applicable in 2019. no other country of oper-
ther escalation of trade tensions5, particularly that the out- marked the first time since the 1997–1998 asian financial  ation has qualified as hyperinflationary to date.10 
break of the coronavirus disease will have effects on glob- crisis that growth in the region dropped below 6 %. out-
al growth. beginning march 2020, concerns that global  side of  china, the region is expected to grow at a  moderate 
5  www.worldbank.org/en/publication/global-economic-prospects 6 www.jpmorgan.com/global/research/coronavirus-impact 10 company information as of december 31, 2019.
7 oecd interim economic assessment coronavirus: the world economy at risk; 
march 2, 2020
8  www.worldbank.org/en/publication/global-economic-prospects
62 9  definitions of segment differ from delivery hero segments.
combined management report 
annual report 2019
europe  while delivery hero’s first phase of disruption was pro- 02. business performance
europe and central asia region is expected to grow at 2.6 %  pelled by the transition of orders from over the phone to 
in 2020, slightly up from 2.0 % in 2019, with a tailwind from  online, establishing own delivery capabilities allowed  a) performance
modest growth in domestic demand offset by a small drag  delivery hero to connect incremental restaurants to our  in 2019 the revenue of the group increased to 
from net exports. in central europe, fiscal stimulus and the  platforms and expand the total addressable market (“tam”)  € 1,237.6 million (previous year: € 665.1 million). this 
resulting boost to private consumption will begin to fade  for food delivery by offering a wider selection of restau- increase is mainly attributable to strong organic growth 
in some of the subregion’s largest economies next year,  rants to more customer. by continuously investing in logis- across all segments as a result of investments in improved 
while growth is expected to slightly recover in eastern  tics and technology, we are looking for ways to maximize  service offering, including the further rollout of own 
europe. the efficiency of our operations and utilization of our  rider   delivery services and targeted investments into customer 
network. acquisition. the  organic growth is supplemented by the 
outside of the aforementioned impact, all segments exhib- acquisition of the  zomato business in february 2019. 
ited positive business developments.  the growing consumer demand for on-demand services 
encouraged us to extend our product offering beyond our  in 2019 orders and gmv grew significantly (+80.3 % and 
regarding the foreign exchange rates, within 2019 the euro  core business pillar of food delivery, in order to capture a  +66.9 %, respectively) compared to 2018, fully meeting the 
appreciated versus a basket of currencies with the most  greater share of consumer wallet. and while food delivery  target of a significant year-on-year increase. total segment 
appreciation relative to the following three currencies11:  will remain the core of our business model, we see  revenue amounted to € 1,455.7 million, exceeding the 
 significant upside to cohort quality by investing  into addi-  target range of between € 1,080 million and € 1,150 million 
—  argentinian peso (ars) +58.19 % tional  verticals. as a result, in 2019 we took the strategic  that was announced in the annual report 2018 and subse-
—  turkish lira (try) +12.48 % decision to accelerate the transition to a third-generation  quently increased to between € 1,440 million and 
—  south korean won (krw) +1.68 %  delivery company, which involved the following initiatives: € 1,480 million. 
sector development —  provision of kitchen spaces and expertise, including  for 2019 adjusted ebitda of the segments was negative 
delivery hero boasts a wide geographic footprint with  knowledge on industrialization of kitchens and  € 430.9 million and accordingly outside the expected range 
operations across a number of attractive markets in   virtual restaurant concepts of between negative € 270 million and negative 
europe, mena, asia and americas regions. in our view the  —  successful dark store launch and rollout in the mena  € 320 million, which was modified throughout 2019 to the 
positive outlook for the online food and on-demand deliv- and asia segment lower end of the range of negative € 370 million and neg-
ery  services market is predicated on secular growth trends  —  continued rollout of additional verticals such as  ative € 420 million due to accelerated investments into 
that will drive compounding growth for decades to come:  groceries and other everyday items additional verticals. 
—  perpetually increasing online and smartphone 
 penetration
—  development of last mile logistics technology 
—  lifestyle, urbanization and socio-demographic 
trends, such as a higher incidence of single-person 
households
11 calculated from factset data on annual end-of-period foreign exchange rates 
per euro (eur).
63
combined management report 
annual report 2019
in 2019 the adjusted ebitda of the mena segment of  on december 13, 2019 delivery hero se entered into agree- the total consideration amounted to (i) 5.7 million  ordinary 
€ 43.3 million was below the expectation of € 70 million  ments to acquire approximately 88 % of the shares in the  shares in takeaway.com, (ii) 3.8 million warrants  convertible 
due to higher costs incurred mainly in association with a  south korean woowa brothers corp. and resolved on a  into ordinary shares of takeaway.com at zero cost and (iii) 
third-party logistics change at hungerstation, the integra- capital increase against a contribution in kind under the  € 508 million of cash, including the cash position of the 
tion of zomato uae and investments into dark stores and  exclusion of subscription rights. the closing of the trans- transferred entities. measured at market values, at closing 
virtual restaurants in mena. action is subject to certain conditions such as financing of  date the consideration amounted to € 1.2 billion. 
the cash consideration and regulatory approvals, includ-
the europe segment was expected to break even on an  ing merger  control clearance by the korean fair trade com- the warrants were exercised and converted into ordinary 
adjusted ebitda basis during the second half of 2019,  mission, and is expected to occur in the second half of  shares of takeaway.com in may 2019. the share c omponent 
which was achieved for the month of december 2019.  2020. the consideration will consist of up to approx.  post warrant exercise represented 15.5 % of the total issued 
€ 1.7 billion in cash and up to approx. € 1.9 billion in  and outstanding share capital of takeaway.com at the date 
b) acquisitions and investments delivery hero new shares. in the context of financing the  of closing.
acquisitions during the reporting period comprise the  cash component of the consideration on january 15, 2020 
food delivery business of zomato media pvt. ltd. in the  delivery hero placed € 1.75 billion convertible bonds and  the gain from this divestment contributed € 930.1 million 
united arab emirates (“zomato uae”) in february 2019 as  new shares from a cash capital increase with gross pro- to the net profit for the full year 2019 of € 230.2 million.
well as a minority investment in zomato holding, india, in  ceeds of about € 571 million (refer to section i. of the con-
the amount of € 43.2 million. further, delivery hero  solidated financial statements).  03.  net assets, financial position and  
acquired the hungrig group in april 2019, foody in july  results of operations 
2019 and delivery rd in july 2019, food delivery platforms  c) discontinued operations and divestments
based in sweden, cyprus and dominican republic. the total  on april 1, 2019, delivery hero closed the sale of its  german  a) financial performance of the group
consideration for the acquisitions was € 207.8 million.  food delivery operations. the businesses comprising  business activities presented as discontinued operations 
 lieferheld, pizza.de and foodora were sold to takeaway. are not subject to the following discussion of net assets, 
in 2019 delivery hero participated in a funding round of  com n.v. (“takeaway.com”) in exchange for cash and an  financial position and result of operations (unless other-
the  glovo group and invested a further € 19.1 million, result- equity stake in takeaway.com. wise stated). 
ing in a total stake of 12.7 %. further minority investments 
in the total amount of € 5.2 million were carried out in 
bio-lutions international ag, germany, a producer of 
packaging from agricultural waste, in nosh services, 
 cayman islands, a b2c and b2b virtual cafeteria and food 
retail company operating in hong kong, and in wisefood 
gmbh, germany, a producer of fruit and vegetable-based 
edible straws.
64
combined management report 
annual report 2019
consolidated statement of profit or loss   the 2019 segment performance excludes the operations  development of revenue
and other comprehensive income  of the german businesses that were sold in 2019.  the delivery hero group increased its revenue in 2019 to 
the 2019 group result developed as follows:  € 1,237.6 million (previous year: € 665.1 million). the reve-
adjusted ebitda of the segments reconciles to earnings  nue increase was mainly driven by high organic revenue 
continuing operations before income taxes as follows: growth, especially in mena and asia, resulting from 
change  continuing investments in our service offering, customer 
  eur  continuing operations experience, and the expansion of the group’s own deliv-
eur million 2019 2018  million % change ery services, as well as the accelerated rollout of dark 
    adjusted  eur  stores.
revenue 1,237.6 665.1 572.5 86.1 eur million 2019 2018  million %
cost-of-sales –926.4 –318.0 –608.4 > 100   rebates and voucher expenses increased from € 41.0 million 
gross profit 311.2 347.2 –36.0 –10.4 adjusted ebitda  in 2018 to € 225.3 million in 2019, mainly in the asia 
of the segments –430.9 –100.2 –330.7 > 100
 segment as part of additional marketing investments.
marketing 
consolidation 
expenses –495.2 –313.9 –181.3 57.8
adjustments –6.3 –12.3 6.0 –48.7
it expenses –94.8 –54.3 –40.5 74.6 group revenue by type1
items excluded 
eur million
general adminis- from segment 
trative expenses –373.5 –217.2 –156.3 72.0 performance –22.0 –20.0 –2.0 10.0
other operating  management  other 50.7
115.6
income 19.9 10.0 9.8 97.8 adjustments –49.0 –44.1 –4.9 11.1
other operating  expenses for  prime placings 50.8
75.3
expenses –6.7 –9.2 2.6 –27.6 share-based 
impairment  compensation –44.8 –17.2 –27.6 > 100 delivery fees 102.8
313.6
losses on trade  other reconci-
receivables and  liation items 2.3 –0.2 2.5 > 100 460.8
contract assets –8.8 –4.3 –4.5 > 100 commissions 733.0
amortization 
operating  and depreciation –97.2 –47.7 –49.5 > 100 0 200 400 600 800
result –648.0 –241.7 –406.3 > 100
net interest and 
net interest cost –9.4 2.8 –12.2 > 100 other financial  2018 
result –15.5 –17.1 1.6 –9.3
other financial  2019 
result 93.7 18.8 74.9 > 100 earnings before 
income taxes –663.4 –258.8 –404.6 > 100
share of the  1 discounts deducted from commission revenue.
profit or loss of 
 
associates 
accounted for  commissions revenues increased to € 733.0 million (pre-
using the equity  vious year: € 460.8 million) representing 59.2 % (previous 
method –99.7 –38.6 –61.1 > 100
year: 69.3 %) of total revenue and remaining the largest 
earnings before  component of revenue, while the share of revenue from 
income taxes –663.4  –258.8 –404.6 > 100
delivery fees charged to the customer increased signifi-
cantly from 15.4 % (€ 102.8 million) in 2018 to 25.3 % 
(€ 313.6 million) in 2019. 
65
combined management report 
annual report 2019
development of adjusted ebitda it expenses increased by € 40.5 million to € 94.8 million.  other operating expenses amount to € 6.7 million in 2019 
delivery expenses (€ 777.0 million, previous year:  they mainly comprise personnel expenses. most of our it  (previous year: € 9.2 million) and include primarily good-
€ 258.3 million) represent 83.9 % (previous year: 81.2 %) of  expenses is attributable to research and development activ- will and asset impairments of € 1.9 million (previous year: 
cost-of-sales in 2019. the continuous expansion of the deliv- ities, predominantly for the refinement of our local plat- € 4.3 million) and losses from the wind ups and liquidations 
ery business, additionally pronounced by the ramp up of  forms to enhance the value for our partner restaurants and  of subsidiaries in 2019 of € 2.0 million (previous year: 
dark stores in the second half of 2019, resulted in a dispro- to further improve the customer experience (2019: about  € 3.8 million).
portional increase of cost-of-sales (191.3 %) compared to the  € 65.0 million; previous year: € 36.2 million).
increase of revenue year on year. delivery expenses com- the impairment losses on trade receivables and other assets 
prise own delivery personnel expenses (€ 144.8 million, pre- general administrative expenses amount to € 373.5 million  increased to € 8.8 million (2018: € 4.3 million) due to an 
vious year: € 95.7 million) and external riders and other  in 2019 (previous year: € 217.2 million). they include depre- increase of rider receivables in the context of  implementing 
operating delivery expenses (€ 632.1 million, previous year:  ciation expenses of € 27.0 million (previous year: n/a) for  new payment opportunities for orderers in 2019.
€ 162.6 million). in addition, fees for payment services  right-of-use assets that were recognized upon transition to 
increased by € 32.0 million due to a higher transaction num- ifrs 16 as of january 1, 2019. consequently, lease expenses  development of adjusted ebitda of the segments 
ber as well as an increase in the online payment share.  decreased by € 9.1 million to € 6.6 million in 2019 reflecting  in 2019, the negative adjusted ebitda of the segments 
short-term and low value leases. expenses for share-based  increased to negative € 430.9 million (previous year: nega-
gross profit margin in 2019 was 25.1 % (previous year: 52.2 %).  compensation increased to € 44.8 million (previous year:  tive € 100.2 million). the raise of the negative adjusted 
the decline is mainly attributed to the higher delivery  € 17.2 million) and other personnel-related general   ebitda margin to 34.8 % (previous year: negative 15.1 %) is 
expenses as described above.   administrative expenses increased to € 128.6 million   mainly driven by higher cost-of-sales as a result of the con-
 (previous year: € 96.8 million) in 2019. this is primarily driv- tinued expansion of own delivery services in many markets, 
marketing expenses increased by € 181.3 million year on  en by an increase in administrative headcounts. consulting  including the rollout of further on-demand items ( groceries, 
year to € 495.2 million due to higher investments particu- expenses increased to € 48.3 million (previous year:   flowers, etc.) and an accelerated rollout of dark stores in 
larly in the asia segment. they mainly include expenses for  € 22.6 million) mainly due to services related to the prepa- the second half of 2019.
customer acquisition of € 239.3 million (previous year:  ration and execution of m&a transactions.
€ 148.6 million) and expenses relating to restaurant acqui-
sitions of € 150.4 million (previous year: € 91.7 million). this  other operating income of € 19.9 million (previous year: 
increase reflects the increased competition in certain mar- € 10.0 million) includes primarily gains from a settlement 
kets, the extension of the group’s restaurant portfolio as  of warranty claims related to the acquisition of the food-
well as the rollout of supplementary service offerings, e.g.,  panda group in 2016 of € 9.3 million as well as gains from 
dark stores. the recharge of costs to takeaway of € 7.3 million. 
66
combined management report 
annual report 2019
b) business development by segment the performance of our segments is summarized based  adjusted ebitda
the key financial performance indicators for managing the  on these main kpis below: change
group on segment level are total segment revenues and  adjusted  eur  
adjusted ebitda of the segments. revenue eur million 2019 2018 million %
change  
mena 43.3 18.1 25.2 > 100
segment revenue 2019   adjusted  eur 
eur  million eur  million 2019 2018  million % asia  –312.2 –51.9 –260.3 > 100
  europe –19.0 –15.4 –3.6 23.4
mena 716.6 316.4 400.2 > 100
americas –143.0 –50.9 –92.1 > 100
110.4 173.2 asia 455.5 192.5 263.0 > 100
adjusted ebitda of 
americas europe europe 173.2 115.9 57.3 49.4 the segments –430.9 –100.2 –330.7 > 100
americas 110.4 62.1 48.3 77.8 consolidation 
455.5 adjustments –6.3 –12.3 6.0 –48.7
total segment 
asia revenue  1,455.7 686.9 768.8 > 100 items excluded  
from segment  
discount –225.3 –41.0 –184.3 > 100
716.6 performance –22.0 –20.0 –2.0 10.0
mena other recon-
management 
ciling items 7.21 19.22 –12.0 –62.5
adjustments –49.0 –44.1 –4.9 11.1
group revenue 1,237.6 665.1 572.5 86.1
expenses for  
1  for segment reporting purposes revenues from other on-demand items  share-based 
where delivery hero acts as principal are presented net of merchandise   compensation –44.8 –17.2 –27.6 > 100
value (gross profit presentation).
2  reconciliation effects in 2018 include gross revenue (before voucher  other 
deduction) of operations abandoned or sold during the reporting period   reconciliation 
segment revenue 2018 adjusted that are not in the scope of ifrs 5. in 2018 these divestments included  items 2.3 –0.2 2.5 > 100
 australia, france, italy and netherlands.
eur  million
amortization and 
depreciation –97.2 –47.7 –49.5 > 100
financial result –15.5 –17.1 1.6 –9.3
62.1
earnings before 
americas income taxes –663.4 –258.8 –404.6 > 100
192.5 115.9
asia europe
316.4
mena
67
combined management report 
annual report 2019
consolidation adjustments substantially relate to the  number of orders € 476.1 million in 2019. the acquisition of the zomato uae 
 elimination of transactions with discontinued operations. change business on february 28, 2019 further contributed to the 
adjusted 
million 2019 2018  million % growth. the appreciation of the euro against the turkish 
items excluded from segment performance of € 22.0 million    lira softened the increase in segment revenue.
in 2019 relate to expenses for operations, which were  mena 298.6 190.6 108.0 56.7
divested in 2018 (previous year € 20.0 million). m  anagement  asia 227.0 82.6 144.4 > 100 the adjusted ebitda in the mena segment increased from 
adjustments include (i) expenses for services related to  € 18.1 million in 2018 to € 43.3 million in 2019. the growth 
europe 85.0 60.3 24.7 41.1
corporate transactions of € 34.8 million (previous year:  in adjusted ebitda of the region was in particular softened 
americas 55.4 36.0 19.4 53.9
€ 40.1 million), thereof € 13.3 million expenses recognized  by investments into dark stores and virtual restaurants in 
total 666.0 369.5 296.5 80.3
for earn-out liabilities in connection with acquisitions of  2019. the adjusted ebitda was further affected by costs 
current and previous years (previous year: € 30.1 million)  related to the restructuring of the fleet management of 
and (ii) expenses for corporate restructuring of € 14.3 million  hungerstation and the integration of zomato uae. the 
(previous year: € 3.9 million), which include in 2019  gmv adjusted ebitda margin slightly improved to 6.0 % in 2019 
 expenses for legal consulting in connection with the  change (previous year: 5.8 %).
reorgani zation of the management structure of hunger- adjusted  eur 
station. eur million 2019 2018  million % asia 
during the year 2019, the asia segment has shown a strong 
other reconciling items include non-operating income and  mena 3,476.8 2,099.9 1,376.9 65.6 growth, with an increase in segment revenue by 136.6 % 
expenses. in 2019, this item included in particular gains  asia 2,357.5 1,213.7 1,143.8 94.2 to € 455.5 million (previous year: € 192.5 million). orders 
from the settlement of warranty claims related to the acqui- europe 1,047.5 734.6 312.9 42.6 grew even stronger by 174.8 % to 227.0 million (previous 
sition of the foodpanda group in 2016 of € 9.3 million,  year: 82.6 million). positive revenue and order develop-
americas 553.6 406.3 147.3 36.3
 losses on the disposal or discontinuation of business activ- ment are driven by investments in affordability, restaurant 
total 7,435.4 4,454.5 2,980.9 66.9
ities of € 2.0 million (previous year: gain of € 4.4 million)  coverage and an improved service offering, including the 
as well as non-income-tax expenses of € 4.3 million  launch of new payment and product solutions “panda pay” 
( previous year: € 5.5 million).  and “pandamart” in 2019, as well as the expansion to new 
mena  cities and areas. 
in 2019, the mena segment continued to grow strongly in 
revenue by 126.5 % to € 716.6 million (previous year:  the negative adjusted ebitda increased to negative 
€ 316.4 million) and in orders by 56.7 % to 298.6 million  € 312.2 million (previous year: negative € 51.9 million) 
(previous year: 190.6 million). the strong organic growth   mainly as a result from the investments in own delivery 
is primarily driven by the further rollout of own delivery  services and marketing mentioned above.  consequentially, 
services. the revenues from own delivery services  the adjusted ebitda margin deteriorated to negative 
increased by 222.3 % from € 147.7 million in 2018 to  68.5 % (previous year: negative 27.0 %).
68
combined management report 
annual report 2019
americas the negative adjusted ebitda increased from € 15.4 million  the condensed statement of cash flows of the group is as 
in 2019, revenue in the americas segment increased by  to € 19.0 million resulting in an adjusted ebitda margin of  follows:
77.8 % to € 110.4 million (previous year: € 62.1 million) and  negative 10.9 % (previous year: negative 13.2 %). the 
the number of orders grew by 53.9 % to 55.4 million (pre- increase of the negative adjusted ebitda results mainly  eur million 2019 2018
vious year: 36.0 million). the growth in revenue is further  from continued investments in own delivery services and   
positively affected by the continuous rollout of delivery  marketing.  cash and cash equivalents  
as of jan. 11 439.8 640.9
services including the expansion of delivery services to 
further on-demand items. revenue was further affected  c) financial position cash flows from  
operating activities –364.8 –164.6
by partially compensatory effects from inflation and the  the delivery hero group treasury function manages the 
cash flows from  
appreciation of the euro, in particular in relation to the  liquidity requirements for delivery hero se and its consoli-
investing activities 627.3 –37.1
argentinian peso. dated subsidiaries. the primary goal of financial manage-
cash flows from  
ment is the timely provision of liquidity to the group’s sub-
financing activities –0.1 10.6
adjusted ebitda increased by 181.0 % to negative € 143.0   sidiaries, meeting the group’s payment obligation in due 
effect of exchange rate  
million in 2019 (previous year: negative € 50.9 million), rep- course and efficiently consigning excess funds to banks. 
movements on cash  
resenting particularly the higher investments in own deliv- financial management is based on twelve months’ cash  and cash equivalents –2.8 –10.1
ery services, including new verticals as well as customer  forecast for the group and a detailed monthly liquidity 
net change in  
acquisition and retention activities in a highly competitive  plan for the operating entities of the group. the cash  cash and cash equivalents 262.4 –191.1
market.  inflow from the disposal of assets and capital increases are 
cash and cash equivalents  
administrated by delivery hero se. they will be allocated  as of dec. 311 699.4 439.8
europe in accordance with the business plan to subsidiaries and 
1  cash included in a disposal group classified as held for sale  
the revenue of the europe segment increased by 49.4 %  provided for  strategic measures as needed. during the  december 31, 2019: nil (december 31, 2018: € 75.7 million).
to € 173.2 million mainly driven by a higher number of  reporting period, the group was able to meet its payment 
orders (85.0 million, plus 41.1 %). the strong organic growth  obligations at any time.
was thereby accompanied by strategic acquisitions in 
 sweden and cyprus in 2019.
69
combined management report 
annual report 2019
in 2019 cash flow from operating activities (continued and  group (€ 233.5 million) in january 2018 and the cash  outflow  structure of statement of financial position 
discontinued operations) was negative at € 364.8 million,  from the investment in a minority stake of rappi inc.  (in % of total assets)
due to the emphasis on growth resulting in many group  (€ 138.1 million).
entities not having reached profitability yet. the negative  assets included in a disposal group 18
classified as held for sale 0
cash flow from operating activities was overcompensated  cash flow from financing activities in 2019 consists of cash 
by the positive cash flow from investing activities. inflows of € 27.6 million (2018: € 12.2 million) resulting from  other assets 14 22
capital increases in connection with the exercise of equity-  trade and other receivables 4
5
the investing activities in 2019 are characterized by the  settled stock options. in 2019 cash flow from financing 
18
net cash inflow from the divestment of the german oper- activities include cash outflows of € 28.2 million from  cash and cash equivalents 26
ations of € 487.5 million, as well as cash inflows of  repayment of lease liabilities following the first time appli-
intangible and tangible assets 46
€ 226.5 million in connection with the sale of shares in  cation of ifrs 16. in 2018 cash outflows from operating  47
takeaway.com and a cash inflow of € 208.0 million in con- leases were reflected in cash flow from operating activi- 0 20 40 60
nection with a multi-year collar-loan agreement with  ties. the cash flow from financing further includes the 
respect to 3.2 million shares in takeaway.com. cash out- inflow from the bridge financing for the acquisition of the  dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2019
flows of € 133.2 million (net of cash) relate to the acquisi- zomato business and corresponding repayment with pro-
tions of zomato uae, hungrig group, foody,  delivery rd  ceeds from the divestment of the german operations (see  the group’s total assets as of december 31, 2019 increased 
and the additional investment in glovo. the cash flow from  cash flow from investing activities). by 33.3 % compared to the previous year. 
investing activities in 2018 reflected  mainly the cash inflow 
from the consideration for the divestment of  hungryhouse  cash and cash equivalents were not subject to any signifi- non-current assets remain the largest portion of the bal-
cant restrictions as of the reporting date. ance sheet with 64.5 % as of december 31, 2019 (previous 
year: 56.3 %). they mainly comprise intangible assets of 
d) net assets € 1,046.7 million (previous year: € 878.0 million), thereof 
the group’s balance sheet is structured as follows: goodwill € 766.6 million (previous year: € 570.4 million), 
trademarks € 161.3 million (previous year: € 187.7 million) 
eur million dec. 31, 2019 % dec. 31, 2018 % change and the customer base € 83.9 million (previous year: 
  € 86.2 million). intangible assets increased by € 168.7 million 
non-current assets 1,723.0 64.5 1,129.2 56.3 593.8 mainly due to additions in goodwill in connection with the 
current assets 949.7 35.5 875.8 43.7 73.9 acquisition of zomato uae and hungrig group in 2019. 
total assets 2,672.7 100.0 2,005.0 100.0 667.8 investments account for 21.8 % (€ 379.1 million) of the 
non-current assets and mainly relate to shares in takeaway.
com. right-of-use assets that were recognized in accor-
eur million dec. 31, 2019 % dec. 31, 2018 % change dance with ifrs 16 contributed € 115.0 million to the high-
  er non-current assets. the increase was partly offset by 
equity 1,869.5 69.9  1,615.0 80.6 254.5 currency effects in connection with the appreciation of 
non-current liabilities 185.4 6.9 62.6 3.1 122.8 the euro to some currencies like the turkish lira and argen-
current liabilities 617.9 23.1 327.4 16.3 290.5 tinian peso.
total liabilities and equity  2,672.7 100.0 2,005.0 100.0 667.7
70
combined management report 
annual report 2019
the increase in current assets in 2019 is mainly due to an  as of the reporting date, non-current liabilities increased   ebitda of the segments of negative € 430.9 million (2018: 
increase of € 335.3 million in cash and cash equivalents.  significantly by 196.4% compared to the previous year. they  negative € 100.2 million), which is slightly higher than 
further the organic growth of the group in 2019 led to  were impacted by the recognition of long-term lease lia- the t argeted adjusted ebitda range. however, the addi-
higher trade and other receivables, which increased by  bilities of € 89.7 million, in accordance with ifrs 16.  further,  tional revenue growths and the enhanced service offer-
51.9 % to € 129.3 million. contrary, assets included in a  non-current liabilities as of december 31, 2019 include  ing, we believe, outweighs the higher than expected 
 disposal group classified as held for sale decreased by  earn-out liabilities and deferred compensation from acqui- costs.
€ 366.8 million due to the divestment of the german  sitions of € 36.4 million primarily from the  zomato uae 
 business in april 2019. acquisition.  04. employees
structure of statement of financial position  the increase of current liabilities resulted mainly from the  the average number of employees within our continued 
(in % of liabilities and equity) group’s organic growth during the reporting period lead- operations increased from 16,627 in 2018 to 22,515 in 2019. 
ing to higher restaurant liabilities (increase of  this change occurred primarily in the areas of delivery, 
liabilities included in a disposal 4 € 109.0 million) and from the recognition of short-term  sales, product development and business administration. 
group classified as held for sale 0
lease liabilities of € 29.7 million as of december 31, 2019,  as of december 31, 2019, delivery hero employed 24,617 
equity 70 81 in accordance with ifrs 16. contrary, liabilities included in  staff (previous year: 20,608).
pension provisions 1 a disposal group classified as held for sale decreased by 
and other provisions 2
€ 74.8 million due to the divestment of the german busi-
9
trade and other payables 23 ness in april 2019. 
6
other liabilities 5
e) overall assessment
0 20 40 60 80 the management board assesses the financial position, 
financial performance and earnings situation as positive. 
dec. 31, 2018 dec. 31, 2019 beginning in 2019, delivery hero implemented a compre-
hensive investment program that was further extended 
in 2019 the group’s equity increased by 15.7 % due to the  in the second half of 2019. the program was targeted at 
net profit of € 230.2 million. capital increases from the  strengthening the group’s customer offering through 
authorized capital in connection with the exercise of equity-   significantly expanding restaurant coverage, enhanced 
settled stock options raised equity by € 27.5 million.  further  techno logy and product innovation, as well as an 
services received under equity-settled share-based pay- improved  service offering through additional verticals. 
ment arrangements increased equity by € 32.7 million.  total segment revenue of € 1,455.7 million exceeded 
 contrary currency translation losses reflected in other com- expectations in 2019. the positive impact on accelerated 
prehensive income reduced equity by € 27.7 million. order growth and revenue 2019 resulted in adjusted 
71
combined management report 
annual report 2019
c. risk and opportunity report —  conscious acceptance of economically viable risks is  b) risk strategy
an essential part of any business activity. the main goal of delivery hero’s risk strategy is not 
01. risk policy principles and risk strategy  —  the goal of erm is not to avoid risks but to ensure risk   necessarily to avoid all present and future risks, but to 
transparency through a systematic erm process.  assess risk with regards to costs and benefits from running 
the constant monitoring, assessment and weighing of   thereby, risks can be accepted if they are known,  the risk as well as to preserve risk transparency. as we con-
known and emerging risks is a fundamental principle of  assessed, managed and monitored. further, in consid- duct an innovative and growing business with relatively 
delivery hero and the responsibility of the group’s risk man- eration of cost-benefit aspects, an accepted risk should  high inherent risks that rewards with potential future 
agement. the aim of risk management is to develop a strat- correlate with a potential higher return and added  returns, we are willing to accept risks and even seeking 
egy and to set objectives that ensure an optimal balance   value for the group. certain risks to achieve our goals within the defined and 
between the growth of business, on the one hand, and the  —  erm is an integral part of delivery hero’s business  pursued strategy (risk appetite).
mitigation of associated risks, on the other hand, thereby   processes and relates to all business activities within 
systematically and sustainably fostering the group’s share- the group. materiality thresholds
holder value. —  the management board, the global and local erm  risk-related materiality thresholds are derived from our 
 functions and local management teams are responsi- risk appetite. based on the continuing growth focus of the 
a risk is considered as a threat of an event, action or non-  ble for enhancing risk culture and risk awareness.  group, the key metric used as a reference for the defini-
action occurring that could adversely affect delivery hero’s  delivery hero stands for a strong tone from the top  tion of the materiality thresholds is revenue. 
ability to achieve its business objectives or implement its  with regards to erm and all other governance, risk and 
strategy. when identifying risks, both negative impacts and  compliance matters (“grc”) in general. accordingly,  delivery hero distinguishes between two types of 
lost opportunities are considered equally. over the past years group management strengthened   materiality thresholds:
the grc and internal audit function by adding relevant 
the group’s formalized risk management system (rms)  expertise, embedding local risk management policies  —  reporting thresholds for the identification and assess-
focuses solely on managing risks, whereas the consideration  in subsidiaries supported by central subject matter  ment of risks: if exceeded, the risks have to be included 
of opportunities is not part of this formalized system. possi- experts. in the group’s enterprise risk assessment and our  regular 
ble opportunities arising in business activities are described  —  the erm ensures a uniform risk understanding through- reporting process. the reporting threshold, considered 
in section c.06. opportunity report.  out the group by setting definitions, rules and proce- to have an insignificant financial impact, is defined as 
dures and by documenting them in the erm  manual. follows: group revenue x 1 % x 0.5 (€ 6.2 million).
a) risk policy principles —  every employee within the group has the  responsibility 
our enterprise risk management (“erm”) is based on the  to proactively participate in and support the erm.
following principles: —  the erm enables risk awareness in business decisions.
72
combined management report 
annual report 2019
—  materiality limits/escalation criteria for ad-hoc report- 02.  group-wide risk management system  strategy and its business objectives, including safeguard-
ing: if exceeded during the monitoring phase, risks have  (“rms”) ing of the group’s assets and the value chain. the rms 
to be immediately reported to the risk manager, the  deals with all significant risks, not only with risks that could 
management board or the supervisory board, depend- the key objectives of delivery hero’s rms are to manage  jeopardize the existence of the group.
ing on the risk level (low, medium, high). the  materiality  and streamline the group-wide risk management process, 
limit/escalation criteria for ad-hoc reporting, corre- to control all risk management-related activities and to  a) risk identification
sponding to a medium financial impact, is defined as  ensure a comprehensive view on all significant risks of the  risks are identified by all employees of delivery hero, 
follows: group revenue x 2.5 % (> € 30.9 million).  group. the rms identifies, assesses, treats, monitors and   including our nominated risk owners throughout the 
reports risks.  different departments of the group and by the global risk 
local entities apply the same formulas with local revenue  manager or local risk managers on the basis of data analy-
input for determining risks to be reported to the grc  delivery hero’s rms considers the key elements in accor- ses, process reviews,  interviews and actual events. 
 function. dance with section 315 (2), no. 1a hgb and the internation-
ally recognized coso framework of the committee of  b) risk assessment
sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. after identification, the risk owners, supported by local 
risk managers, assess their individual risks based on the 
it consists of the pillars risk identification, risk assessment,  evaluation criteria described as following. those criteria 
risk treatment, risk monitoring and risk reporting. this  are applicable to all subsidiaries of delivery hero to ensure 
includes the risk management process and its instruments  that all risks are assessed uniformly in order to ensure 
as well as all underlying principles and guidelines. the rms   comparability.
is closely aligned with the determination of the group’s 
identification identification  monitoring  
risks are identified and listed through data research,  all identified risks and the related response strategies  
 interviews, review of processes and follow-up incidents. are closely and regularly monitored. key risk indicators are 
reporting
the main tools used for monitoring.
assessment  
risk   assessment identified risks are assessed according to their likelihood   reporting 
management   and impacts, which determines the risk rating. monitored risks are periodically reported to management.
cycle
treatment  
assessed risks are treated according to one of the selected  
monitoring
risk responses: avoid, reduce/mitigate, transfer or accept.
treatment
73
combined management report 
annual report 2019
risks are assessed with respect to two dimensions: for assessing the potential impact of a risk, different  iii.  medium: medium interruptions of daily business/
 perspectives are considered. risks can be evaluated either  medical care needed in case of injuries/medium 
—   impact is the extent to which the risk, if realized,  from a quantitative (financial) perspective and/or from  financial losses/damage is limited by external 
would affect delivery hero and its objectives.  qualitative perspectives such as business objectives, brand   assistance
—   likelihood is defined as the probability of a risk  image, operations, health, legal and environment.
occurring over a predefined period. iv.  high: temporary loss of business functionality and 
the impact scale ranges from insignificant (score of one)  capacity, major violation/damage to reputation, but 
the combination of likelihood of occurrence and impact  to critical (score of five): without long-term and subsequent effects or large 
results in the risk assessment.  financial losses
i.  i nsignificant: the risk does not affect the daily 
identified risks in the red area of the matrix require   performance/insignificant financial losses/no injuries v.  critical: massive financial losses/bankruptcies/death, 
 immediate action from management with high priority or  reputational damage or damage of the relationship 
need to be monitored closely. risks in the amber area are  ii.  low: minimal impairment of daily business/first aid  with the stakeholders.
categorized as medium risks, which require mid-term  for injuries required/situation immediately under 
action and/or regular monitoring. risks in the green area  control/low financial losses the financial impact is usually the primary scale for the 
are not excluded from actions but have a lower priority. impact assessment.
risk matrix and financial impact scale of delivery hero 
likelihood
(1 – 20 %) (> 20 – 40 %) (> 40 – 60 %) (> 60 – 80 %) (> 80 %)
critical  
(€ > 123.8 million) medium  medium high  high  high 
high  
(€ 61.9–123.8 million) medium medium medium high  high 
impact medium 
(€ 30.9–61.9 million) low  medium  medium  medium high 
low 
(€ 6.2–30.9 million) low  low  medium  medium  medium 
insignificant 
(€ < 6.2 million) low  low  low  medium  medium 
74
combined management report 
annual report 2019
gross versus net risk c) risk treatment iv. r isk acceptance: taking no action can be favored 
in a first step, we evaluate a risk without considering the  the treatment of risks encompasses actions or strategies  considering a cost-benefit analysis
effect of the risk treatment strategy and the risk mitiga- to manage identified and assessed risks. one of the five 
tion measures (the gross risk). in the second step, we then  following options needs to be chosen by the risk owner in  v.  r isk diversification: e.g., spreading risk through 
define the remaining net risk, taking into account the risk  alignment with management:  serving of multiple markets
treatment as well as the implementation of any risk miti-
gation measures. i.  r isk avoidance: risk can be avoided by stopping a  d) risk monitoring
certain activity that is posing the risk risk monitoring refers to the continuous follow-up of 
the chart below presents the differences between gross   identified, assessed and treated risks with the respective 
and net risk. ii.  r isk reduction/mitigation: risk can be reduced by  risk controller and/or local risk and compliance manager 
taking necessary measures with the purpose of evaluating the latest likelihoods and 
impacts as well as to monitor and re-evaluate the defined 
iii.  risk transfer: the risk can be transferred to a third  actions and the progress of implementation. continuous 
party, insurance or consulting company risk monitoring is a collective responsibility between the 
global risk manager, local risk managers, as well as with 
the respective risk owners. continued risk monitoring is 
carried on a regular basis.
e) risk reporting
we have established the following reporting structure for 
differences between gross and net risk  the key risks identified:
i.  q  uarterly risk & compliance committee meeting 
identified risks
ii.  r egular updates to the audit committee 
inherent risk (= gross)
risks that exist without consideration of controls   ics iii. on-demand updates to the supervisory board
or other management activities 
iv. a  d-hoc updates for critical risks to the management 
board and/or supervisory board
risk treatment/mitigation measures:
1. responsibilities
2. processes, policies, ics
3. training/communication
4. monitoring/improvement
5. insurance 
actual  plan 
residual risk (= net)
risks that exist with   acceptable residual risk  
consideration of controls   (= target)
or other management activities 
75
combined management report 
annual report 2019
03. s ystem of internal financial   assessment of complexity and the involvement of  judgment  report on its activities on a quarterly basis, and the 
reporting controls within the application of accounting policies, the account-  supervisory board with a report at least once a year. these 
ing for selected complex reporting topics, e.g., business  reports contain, inter alia, an account of the current  status 
delivery hero has implemented a detailed system of  combinations and share-based compensation arrange- of the various audits conducted under the flexible audit 
 internal financial reporting controls. this system aims to  ments, is centrally administered to comply with the group’s  plan, significant findings of completed audits and any out-
 identify, evaluate and control all risks that could have a  reporting requirements. risks are further mitigated by the  standing issues relating to implementation of manage-
significant impact on the proper preparation of the  cross-functional exchange among central functions, in par- ment action plans.
 consolidated financial statements in compliance with the  ticular between legal, strategy, group accounting and 
relevant accounting standards and applicable laws. as a  group controlling. identified risks are continuously mon- 05. risk report as of december 31, 2019
key component of the accounting and reporting process,  itored and reassessed. based on this assessment and in 
the system of internal financial reporting controls com- accordance with the requirements of the respective inter- in 2019 the delivery hero group´s risk and opportunity pro-
prises preventive,  monitoring and investigative control  national financial reporting standards, the risks are  file did not substantially change compared to the profile 
measures in accounting and operational functions, which  reflected and disclosed in the group’s consolidated finan- as described in the risk and opportunity report of the 
ensure a methodical and consistent process for preparing  cial statements. the system of internal controls is subject   annual report 2018.
the financial  statements. the control system is based on  to regular reviews by the grc department and/or risk-
the  various group processes that have a significant impact  based assessments performed by internal audit. individual risks are generally assessed for existence for a 
on financial r eporting. twelve-month period from the reporting date. the key 
04. internal audit system risks in each risk area are described below. these risks are 
these processes and the relevant risk for the financial  appli cable to all our segments (unless explicit reference to 
reporting are analyzed and documented. a control matrix  independence is the cornerstone of delivery hero’s  internal   individual segments is made) and based on the gross risk 
contains all controls, including a description of the con- audit function. internal audit provides independent and   assessment. the actions taken as described below are – 
trol, type of control and the frequency with which it is car- objective assurance to the management board, audit  unless otherwise stated – considered adequate to mitigate 
ried out. we have implemented standardized monthly   committee and supervisory board regarding the  adequacy  the respective risks.
reporting and review procedures for subsidiary financial  and effectiveness of the group’s other governance 
statements. these are subject to a multi-level monthly   processes (risk management, compliance management and  a) strategic risks
review process on a regional and group level to ensure  internal controls). this is accomplished via risk-based audits  the online food delivery market is continuing to grow very 
consistency and correctness across the group.   performed by the internal audit team throughout the  quickly, supported by the internet penetration and the use 
delivery hero group and subsequent reporting to the  of smartphones worldwide.
our global accounting manual provides detailed account-  management board and the supervisory board.
ing instructions for all key components of the financial  the industry continues to be highly competitive. in v arious 
statements to the group’s finance teams. the identifica- internal audit serves to promote responsible corporate  countries delivery hero is subject to pressure from other 
tion of risks for the consolidated financial statements fur- governance in accordance with the standards and code of  existing aggregators, own delivery models, large food 
ther involves the observations of the group’s internal audit  ethics of the institute of internal auditors (iia) and  chains and brands, as well as new well-funded market 
function, the results of statutory audits and the risk assess-  deutsches institut für interne revision (diir). it provides  entrants. our success depends crucially on our ability to 
ment of the group accounting function. based on the  the audit committee of the supervisory board with a  maintain a strong position in our markets. 
76
combined management report 
annual report 2019
if we are unable to protect leading market positions, our  require delivery hero to flexibly react to changes to its  to identify such strategic risks in a timely manner, we 
service may be exposed to pricing pressure and sales may  business processes. furthermore, financial turbulences,   promote local entrepreneurship to enable our local 
decline. complementary delivery services and “super-apps”  economic and institutional instability in certain markets,   management teams to react quickly to individual market 
that extend the scope of services and products to be  an expansive monetary policy of large central banks world- changes. in addition, delivery hero promotes the 
 delivered (e.g., groceries) may attract our brands’  wide and an unresolved debt problem in numerous indus-  strategical and technological collaboration between local 
 customers and consequently affect our market position. trial and developing countries result in considerable risks  and central teams to leverage the global organization. if 
for our business. further considering the expansion into  a reaction to local developments is needed, mitigating 
delivery hero is continuously focusing on increasing its  new markets and investments in new verticals with differ- actions are established based on the individual facts and 
restaurant base and on the enhancement of the customer  ing applicable regulations, overall, the risk of economic,  circumstances identified. 
loyalty by investing in a seamless customer experience.  political, legal and financial risks is considered high. 
additionally, we are improving our logistics services by  b) operational risks
replacing delivery time estimates with custom-built  online food delivery is based on the aggregation of cus- delivery hero operates websites, platforms, payment 
machine learning algorithms based on proprietary data.  tomer demand for food and beverages as well as the offer-  solutions and other data processing systems, which we use 
ing of a broad selection of menu options by our restaurant  to collect, maintain, transmit and store information about 
in addition, in 2019 delivery hero started rolling out com- partners. disruptions in the restaurant supply may have  our partner restaurants, customers and suppliers. they all 
plementary service offerings in selected cities to enhance  an adverse effect on the performance of our business  rely on the security of our systems and the fact that their 
the frequency of orders on its platforms. the risk of   model. the outbreak of the coronavirus in the beginning  data is handled properly and is not misused. any breaches 
increasing competitive pressure is considered high. of 2020 is one of the rare events that resulted in broad  may result in material reputational damage. therefore, we 
restrictions to restaurant operations, including temporary  maintain and continuously improve our technical and 
technological changes and disruptive technologies may  closure of restaurants, as well as curfews in cities and coun- organi zational measures and implement our standards 
affect our current business model, if we are not able to  tries. such restrictions in the first place have a harmful  worldwide. 
keep a technological leadership position. new generations  effect on restaurants’ ability to continue operations, but 
of consumers and restaurants might expect different  in the second place may disruptively affect the success of  however, it security risks, in particular cybersecurity, 
 technological applications and solutions. delivery hero’s  delivery hero’s business model in the relevant markets.  remain the biggest inherent risk of our business model. as 
product and technology teams are constantly focusing on  potential authoritative measures for pandemic control can  the nature and characteristics of cyberattacks are constant-
innovation in all areas of the consumer experience. in this  be initiated and altered at short notice and might impact  ly evolving, the risk that new security gaps can only be 
context technological developments in the online food  our business operations extensively. the impact is contin- closed with a time lag exists.
delivery space and in other internet-based business  models  gent on many aspects, including the duration and intensi-
are constantly evaluated. the risk of disruptive techno l- ty of the outbreak, the effectiveness of public health mea- delivery hero is also subject to several business continuity 
ogies is considered high. sures and supportive macroeconomic measures.  risks. as an internet-based company, we are strongly 
considering our diversification in several markets that are   dependent on the functionality, security and stability of 
as we are operating in emerging and developing markets,  differently exposed to the corona outbreak and corre-
we are subject to economic, political and legal risks in  sponding pandemic control measures, we currently assess 
these countries. unexpected regulatory- or capital market  the risk as medium.
requirements as well as changes in applicable laws may 
77
combined management report 
annual report 2019
our  websites and online order platforms. as online food  country-specific and economic requirements, including  delivery hero is, in many countries of its europe segment, 
delivery is preferred mainly because of its convenience,  employment legislation and social security, increase the  subject to the eu payment services directive ii (psdii), 
even short system downtimes can lead to high financial  complexity of the rider management as part of the own  which  covers online-based payment services and provides 
losses, including reputational damage to our brands. the  delivery services. the constant analysis of regulatory  a  uniform regulation of payments via the internet and 
risk is considered high. develop ments is needed to find the best approach in  mobile phones. it increases customer protection and the 
advancing the logistics business. non-compliance with  requirements for user authentication. in particular, the 
to avoid harm to our systems, we are continuously evalu-  regulatory requirements may lead to higher rider costs and  payment services directive ii prevents european compa-
ating, improving and implementing processes with the aim  possible non-compliance fines. this also includes the risk  nies without a  banking or payment services license to 
to reflect best practice processes, which include compre- of unavailability of rider personnel restraining the further   collect and hold  payments resulting from online transac-
hensive internal controls, process improvements and  expansion of the logistic services. in order to mitigate the  tions on behalf of others (e.g., restaurants in delivery hero’s 
employee it expertise. before implementation, proprietary  risks, global projects with a focus on rider contracts, rider  business  model). this forces companies to either outsource 
software is subject to a quality assurance process.  methods  safety and cash-on-delivery solutions have been initiated  the provision of payment services to third parties, to 
used to protect against external attacks include the use of  with the aim of complying with local regulatory employ-  discontinue online payment services or to apply for a bank-
external service providers, redundant systems and  regular  ment requirements. this risk is considered as high. ing or payment  services license. monitoring of  adherence 
stress and penetration tests. moreover, an incident manage- as well as modi fication of or non-compliance with such 
ment process is in place that enables a systematic search  c) compliance risks regulations could adversely affect our business by increas-
for the causes of any malfunctions. the continuous moni- government regulations and legal uncertainties may place  ing compliance costs, including non-compliance fines and 
toring and constant efforts of improving our system secu- administrative and financial burdens on our business.  administrative burdens. an assessment and design of rel-
rity is of utmost priority for the group. due to the impor- as the internet continues to revolutionize commercial  evant processes has been conducted under consideration 
tance of data to our business, we assess the risk of data   relationships on a global scale, the use of the internet and  of external advice. the group has initiated first steps for 
security issues and system malfunctions as high.  mobile devices in everyday life becomes more prevalent  license application. the risk from payment  service regula-
and the business of food delivery gets more and more  tions is considered as high.
we are continuously increasing the number of deliveries  attention from local governments and the media. new laws 
and expanding our logistics business in several regions.  and regulations relating to the internet and the e-com- privacy-related regulation of the internet could interfere 
this may be combined with a larger volume of cash that is  merce and food sector in particular may be changed and  with our strategy to collect and use personal information 
collected and transferred, bearing the risk of theft, incon-  published. these laws and regulations may affect many  as part of our marketing efforts and operations. with the 
sistencies in cash reconciliations and administrative effort.  aspects of our business, such as the collection, use and  general data protection regulation (regulation 2016/679/
to mitigate this risk, several control mechanisms are estab-  protection of data from website visitors and related  privacy  eu of the european parliament and council of april 27, 2016, 
lished that secure the cash-payment procedure. in addition,  issues, online payment services, pricing, anti-bribery, tax,  the “general data protection regulation”), which came 
several projects have been initiated to mitigate the named  commission rates charged to our partner restaurants,  into force on may 25, 2018, data controllers have more obli-
risks. at the same time, we are strongly promoting online   content, copyrights, trademarks and the origin, distribu- gations when it comes to handling personal data. due to 
payment options to our business partners and customers.  tion and quality of goods, foods and services. furthermore,  different interpretation possibilities of the general data 
the risk is considered as medium.  in 2019 the group launched delivery-only stores (“dark  protection regulation (gdpr) with regard to marketing 
stores”) in several cities, which exposes delivery hero to  activities as well as the use of new and innovative technol-
additional regulations.  ogies or processes, the risk exists that regulatory author-
78
combined management report 
annual report 2019
ities and judicature may represent an interpretation of the  restaurants, we have worked on several process improve- d) financial risks
legislative language that deviates from our understanding.  ments and training courses for our restaurant care agents.  as an internationally operating group we are exposed to 
due to a lack of guidance that is not conducive to the  our dark stores and kitchens are not only subject to food  various financial risks. the risks comprise liquidity risks, 
 overall complexity, the question of whether and how the   labeling regulations in each country, but also to hygiene  financial market risks and default risks. 
 cookie banner settings must be set remains a  matter of  and safety requirements. food safety refers to the proper 
legal uncertainty. the mitigation of this  uncertainty can  handling, cooking and preservation of food in order to  risk management in relation to the use  
exist through the complete and thus possibly dispropor- protect  people from foodborne illnesses. to achieve this,  of financial instruments
tionate adjustment of the cookie banner setting to the  we need to adhere to several global and local standards  the objective of our financial risk management is to limit 
requirement formulated by the european court of justice  to ensure the delivery of high-quality products, which are  financial risks arising from business activities and to 
in its decision (case number ecli:eu:c:2019:801- c-673/17)  safe to consume. each country has certain requirements   generally avoid transactions outside the operating business 
of october 1, 2019. alternatively, a potential risk can be  in  kitchen hygiene and warehouse infrastructure. a  project  activities that may expose the group to additional financial 
reduced to an acceptable level by continuously monitor- has been initiated to mitigate the risks. food safety and  risks. accordingly, such risks are monitored within our risk 
ing the overall situation, regularly assessing the risk of  food compliance risks are inherent to our service offering   management system and managed by the group’s treasury 
varying likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms  and therefore rated as high.  function. financial risk management addresses the risk by 
of natural persons, evaluating changes of the legal situa- selecting appropriate means, including the limitation of 
tion and preparing suitable measures for immediate imple- delivery hero is subject to the antitrust and competition   external financing in order to minimize interest rate risks, 
mentation. regarding gdpr, we review our data process- laws in place in the countries in which it operates and  matching when possible foreign currency denominated cash 
ing activities critically,  particularly for compliance with the   carries out transactions. in a number of these countries,  inflows and outflows within the group to mitigate the 
principles of data processing and adjusted security mea- antitrust laws and authorities are relatively new and there   foreign currency exposure as well as the performance of 
sures as defined by art. 25 and art. 32 gdpr. additionally,  is therefore a lot of uncertainty as to how these laws are  aging analyses and the enforcement of a higher share of 
the group has established a data protection management  interpreted and enforced by the authorities. in some  online p ayment to reduce the default risk. 
system to ensure compliance with the gdpr requirements.   countries, antitrust law enforcement has become more 
the non-compliance with applicable  regulations can result  systematic than in the past, leading to an increased risk of  liquidity risk
in fines and other sanctions. the risk is considered as high. allegations of violations of antitrust laws. in general, anti- liquidity risk is the potential inability to meet the group’s 
trust laws, and in particular those relating to vertical agree- financial obligations due to the lack of financial  resources. 
restaurants and grocery retailers in our european seg- ments and merger notifications, require the self-assessment  liquidity risks may arise in the form of limited access to 
ments are subject to numerous food labeling regulations  of behavior, which is never without risk. the self-assess- financing opportunities as a result of the general  market 
such as the eu regulation on the provision of food infor- ment of such behavior is carried out under consideration  situation or rising refinancing costs, including the risk of 
mation to consumers. our online marketplaces in the euro- of external legal advice, and delivery hero is constantly  the dh group credit rating being downgraded. the 
pean union are subject to those regulations. compliance  looking to enhance its internal compliance systems and   exposure to liquidity risk is closely monitored on group 
with these regulations by our partner restaurants requires  resilience to adapt to changes in the regulatory environ- level using weekly liquidity status reports and regular cash 
the awareness of ingredients, allergens and cross-contami- ment. non-compliance with antitrust regulations can result  forecast reports to ensure adequate distribution of funds 
nation risks. we are dependent on the accuracy of the  in fines and other sanctions. the risk from antitrust regu-
 relevant information being supplied to our marketplaces  lations is considered as high.
by our partner restaurants. in order to support our p artner 
79
combined management report 
annual report 2019
and early identification of additional funding needs. an  operations due to translation effects. the group’s entities  default risk
undrawn revolving credit facility of € 125 million further  are exposed to currency risk in particular with regard to  the default risk is the risk that business partners,  primarily 
secures the funding of operations of the group. in addi- intercompany loan obligations denominated in foreign  restaurants, do not meet their payment obligations, which 
tion, cash received in the sale of the german operations  currencies and intercompany receivables and payables.  may result in a loss for the group. this risk mainly involves 
and in connection with a multi-year agreement with  adverse translation effects are caused by the translation  current trade receivables from offline payments. 
respect to 3.2 million of its shares in takeaway.com n.v.  of financial results of our consolidated subsidiaries  delivery hero is not exposed to a significant default risk 
positively affected the liquidity of the group in 2019. the   prepared in their respective functional currencies into  from a single customer. the default risk is generally spread 
liquidity risk is assessed as medium. euros, our reporting currency, in the course of preparing  widely over multiple restaurant partners. besides an active 
the group’s consolidated financial statements. the foreign  accounts receivable management, the group mitigates the 
subject to the closing of the transaction with woowa that  currency exposure includes, among others, the turkish  default risk by aiming for a higher online payment share. 
is expected to occur in the second half of 2020 (refer to  lira, the argentinian peso, the korean won, the us dollar,  overall, the default risk is classified as low risk  considering 
section d.02. of the consolidated financial statements) a  the saudi riyal and the kuwaiti dinar. the volatility of for- the high degree of diversification.
cash consideration of up to approx. € 1.7 billion will become  eign ex change rates and depreciations of currencies 
payable. delivery hero intends to finance the cash compo- against the euro are especially noted for the turkish lira  06. opportunity report
nent of the consideration for the purchased shares in  and argentinian peso. argentina’s economy continues to 
woowa through a combination of debt and equity/ equity- be considered highly inflationary and is reported as a  the opportunity report deals with the business oppor-
linked instruments. in this context on  january 15, 2020,  hyperinflationary economy under ias 29 (refer to section  tunities for delivery hero, which can materialize during 
delivery hero placed € 1.75 billion in conver tible bonds and  b.14. of the consolidated financial statements). no other  the year following the reporting date.
new shares from a cash capital increase with gross pro- country has qualified as hyperinflationary to date. foreign 
ceeds of about € 571 million (refer to  section i. of the con- currency devaluations are closely monitored and the asso- macroeconomic development
solidated financial statements). ciated financial risks are reassessed. for material foreign  every person that has access to the internet is a potential 
 currency positions, financial instruments to mitigate the  customer. we believe that growth opportunities in our 
financial market risk risk are  evaluated by the treasury department and entered  markets will continue to increase by online and mobile 
since our operations are conducted in many different  into if assessed to be economically reasonable. currency  customer engagement and last-mile logistics capabilities, 
 currencies, we are exposed to risks from changes in  foreign  risks are considered medium. as well as shifts in customer behavior due to changes in 
currency exchange rates. driven by our geographic  lifestyle, urbanization and convenience. in our view this 
 footprint and investing activities outside the european  the effects on profit or loss that would result if the foreign  trend is particularly driven by a generation of millennials 
monetary union, such risks are caused by fluctuations or  currencies had appreciated or depreciated by 10 % as of  that heavily relies on smartphones for everyday transac-
devaluations of currencies as well as foreign exchange con- the reporting date are presented in section h.02. of the  tions and appreciates overall convenience, and represents 
trols or governmental measures that impact our ability to   consolidated financial statements.  the growing on-demand culture. additionally, technology 
convert currencies and repatriate dividends, if any.  evolves and fundamentally changes consumption habits. 
 currency exchange risks and movements in foreign  since the group currently does not have significant 
exchange rates between the euro and the currencies of   interest-bearing liabilities, the group is currently not 
the local markets may materially impact the results of our  exposed to risks arising from interest rate fluctuation.
80
combined management report 
annual report 2019
other market developments as a result of the investments we made in our logistics  technology
also 2019 was driven by order growth. we expect this trend   services, our deliveries have continuously increased. we  the group continues to integrate global solutions into 
to continue in the upcoming years, as we believe that the  expect that the near future will see a steady rise in the use  local platforms and aims at standardization. this approach 
need of daily items like groceries will further increase.  of our delivery services by restaurants and new verticals like  will  further simplify our complex it landscape and reduce 
especially our new dark stores and kitchen concepts that  dark stores worldwide.  maintenance. this will also have a positive effect on it 
offer a variety of products are expected to drive a further  development expenses. by advancing the automatization 
increase in the frequency of orders and customer loyalty. our logistics infrastructure and management enabled us to  of operations, we expect to improve pace and service qual-
deliver other on-demand products and expand our  market  ity in areas like customer care, billing and rider onboard-
as more consumers generate more orders, the market- to the non-food sector (e.g., groceries or flowers). we  ing in the near term. in addition, we will further invest in 
place becomes more attractive to restaurants, and being  expect that our efforts and investment in logistics will be   technological innovation to constantly improve our 
listed in the marketplace becomes an operational neces- valuable to respond to the developing customer demands   on- demand platforms. 
sity at some point.  and the delivery of other on-demand products as fast as we 
did regarding grocery delivery. finally, alternative delivery  personnel opportunities 
we envision growth opportunities by focusing on and  options, including automated guided vehicles and drones,  delivery hero has professionals worldwide, which enables 
investing in markets where we are leading players and  may complement the delivery options and increase the  us to grow at speed while maintaining best practices. we 
markets where we see a potential to become market lead-  coverage of our services. are able to dedicate our resources to challenges we may 
ers with a reasonable investment level. delivery hero oper- face in any country.
ates in more than 40 countries, which provides us with a  personalization and customer experience
substantially larger growth opportunity in comparison  the hyper personalization of services and recommenda- our people operations department supports the business 
with our peers, lower operational and financial risks, and  tion of menu options enhance the end-customer experi- in core operations, people partnering, talent development, 
a better opportunity in terms of the significant investments  ence. based on data collection and analysis, we aim to  employee engagement, employee experience and talent 
in technology. identify users’ meal and grocery preferences before they  acquisition. this ensures the ability to retain those talent-
decide themselves. such an aspect of convenience may  ed professionals we work alongside, attract new talent 
logistics provide further growth potential.  worldwide and further grow our reputation and business. 
investments in logistics services provide opportunities to 
reduce delivery time and offer a more seamless customer  enhancing the customer experience by providing services 
experience. innovation in delivery, including demand  tailored to individual preferences may further increase the 
 forecasting models, fleet management and route optimi- user exposure to our websites. this may enable us to 
zation will enable us to cost-optimize our own delivery   generate complementary revenue from marketing services 
 business further and increase customer loyalty and satis- as well as the cross-listing of other services and products. 
faction.  we believe that the ongoing development of personalized 
 offerings will have a significant impact on customer 
 retention. 
81
combined management report 
annual report 2019
d. outlook market to market. while some markets note an accelera- print, its leading market position in key markets and its 
tion in order growth throughout covid-19 driven by an  broad customer base. impacts from the coronavirus out-
01. macroeconomic and industry outlook  expansion of the customer base and customers preferring  break need to be closely monitored.
to order online in times of social distancing, other markets 
as of december 31, 2019, global growth was expected to  have temporarily been impacted negatively (i.e., due to  02. company expectations
recover to 2.5 % in 2020, predicated on continued benign  government imposed curfews) but have recovered in recent 
global financing conditions and a modest recovery in  weeks. it is expected that covid-19 expands the market  in 2019, on a total segment level delivery hero has achieved 
emerging markets and developing economies. europe and  opportunity and that it is beneficial to online food delivery  an order, gmv and revenue growth of 80.3 %, 66.9 % and 
central asia region was  expected to grow at 2.6 % in 2020.  in the long term, given an increased level of restaurants  111.9 %, respectively. for 2020, the group expects to achieve 
mena regional growth was projected to rise to 2.4 % in  and customer acquisitions. total segment revenues above € 2.4 billion and thus 
2020, largely driven by rebound in growth among oil   significantly higher compared to 2019. the growth is 
exporters. growth in south asia was expected to pick up  the global growth prospects for 2020 are contingent on   expected to be driven by a significant increase in orders 
to 5.5 % in 2020. americas’ regional growth was expected  many aspects, including the duration and intensity of the  and gmv compared to 2019 as a result of investments into 
to accelerate to 1.8 % in 2020.12 outbreak, the effectiveness of public health measures and  marketing, restaurant coverage, technology and product 
supportive macroeconomic measures, and remain highly  capabilities, the continuous rollout of new vertical con-
subsequent to december 31, 2019, on march 11, 2020 the  uncertain.15 cepts as well as deployed investments into early-stage mar-
world health organization (who) officially declared the  kets during 2019, which are expected to continue through-
coronavirus outbreak a global pandemic after it had spread  the highly fragmental global food service market contin- out 2020. 
to more than a hundred countries with accelerating infec- ues to provide further growth opportunities.16 delivery  
tions outside of china.13 at the beginning of march 2020,  heroʼs total addressable market (tam) is expected to con- the budgeted measures and investments for 2020 are 
concerns that global growth assumptions cannot be main- tinue expanding into a larger food services market oppor- expected to result in a negative adjusted ebitda of the 
tained were raised. at that time it was predicted, that  global  tunity. the expansion is mainly driven by structural trends  segments at a level slightly lower compared to the 2019 
growth might be significantly impacted by the worldwide  such as:  adjusted ebitda of € 430.9 million. 
outbreak of the coronavirus (covid-19) and might drop by 
0.5% to 1.5% compared to initial expectations – depending  —  online & mobile engagement due to the comparatively short history of the group and 
on the intensity of the coronavirus outbreak. however,  the fact that delivery hero is operating in a relatively new 
accelerated outbreaks throughout europe and north and  —  on demand & last mile logistics market, and the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic in 
south america may have a more severe impact on the  2020, any forecast on the earnings trend is subject to con-
 global economy. research analysts project a significant con- —  lifestyle, urbanization & convenience17 siderable uncertainty. besides factors that can be impact-
traction of gdp of the us economy and eurozone in the  ed by delivery hero, adjusted ebitda is also  contingent on 
first and second quarters of 2020 with a potential to  this assessment is also supported by current independent  factors that cannot be influenced. for  example, if our 
rebound in the third and fourth quarters of the year.14 while  studies.  restaurant partner or customers in our markets are exposed 
online food delivery is less impacted by covid-19, and the  to long-lasting restrictive measures in context with the 
government measures that come with it, than other sec- delivery hero is well positioned to benefit from these  coronavirus outbreak, or the group were forced to defend 
tors, the effect on online food delivery is depending from  favorable trends and developments due to its global foot- its position against new competitors in specific markets or 
12 www.worldbank.org/en/publication/global-economic-prospects 15 oecd interim economic assessment coronavirus:  
13  www.who.int/dg/speeches/detail/who-director-general-s-opening-  the world economy at risk; march 2, 2020
remarks-at-the-media-briefing-on-covid-19---11-march-2020 16 euromonitor, independent consumer foodservice
14 www.jpmorgan.com/global/research/coronavirus-impact 17 kbb review (2018): www.kbbreview.com/news/is-the-kitchen-dead- 
new-report/
82
combined management report 
annual report 2019
to react to revenue downturns, then measures that may  03. corporate governance code f.  supplementary management report to 
not have been scheduled previously may have to be imple- the separate financial statements of 
mented, which can  negatively affect adjusted  ebitda and  the management and supervisory boards of delivery   delivery hero se
trigger considerable deviations from the estimated results. hero se have issued a statement of conformity pursuant 
to the german corporate governance code (section 161 of  the management report of delivery hero se and the group 
the assumptions on the economic development of the  the german stock corporation act (aktg)) in the version  management report have been combined. the annual 
 market and the industry are based on assessments that the   dated february 7, 2017, which was published on the web- financial statements of delivery hero se were prepared in 
management of the delivery hero group considers realistic  site of delivery hero se in december 2019 (https://ir.  accordance with the german commercial code (handels-
in line with currently available information.  however, these  deliveryhero.com/websites/delivery/english/4500/ gesetzbuch/hgb).
estimates are subject to uncertainty and bring with them  declaration- of-compliance.html).
the unavoidable risk that the forecasts do not occur, either  01. business model
in terms of direction or in relation to extent. the forecast  the statement of corporate governance according to 
for the forecast period is based on the composition of the   section 289f and section 315d of the german commercial  delivery hero se (the “company” or “dh se”), a european 
group at the time the financial  statements were prepared. code (hgb) is included in section corporate governance  stock corporation, is the parent company of the delivery  
report of the 2019 annual report. hero group with its registered office at oranienburger 
strasse 70, 10117 berlin, germany.
e. other disclosures 04. non-financial report 
delivery hero se is the holding company of the group’s 
01. t akeover-related information pursuant   the unaudited combined separate non-financial report  subsidiaries that operate online food ordering and deliv-
to sections 289a and 315a of the german  of delivery hero se and the group prepared in accordance  ery marketplace businesses under the brand delivery hero 
commercial code (hgb) with sections 315b and c and 289 b to e of the german  as well as certain regional brands. its operating activities 
commercial code (hgb) is included in the annual report  include the administration of participation in other com-
takeover related information pursuant to sections 289a  2019 in section non-financial statement for the group and  panies as well as the provision of general administrative-, 
and 315a of the german commercial code (hgb)  presented  is published on the website of delivery hero se  (https:// marketing- and it-related services and financing to these 
in section corporate governance report – takeover- related  ir.deliveryhero.com/websites/delivery/english/4050/non-  direct and indirect participations.
disclosures and explanatory notes by the management  financial-statement.html).
board of the 2019 annual report are incorporated by 
 reference into this combined management report. 05. treasury shares
02.  compensation report pursuant to   for information of the treasury shares held as of the 
section 162 of german stock corporation  reporting date in accordance with section 160 (1) no. 2 
act (aktg) of the german stock corporation act (aktg) we refer to 
the notes to the 2019 financial statements of delivery  
the compensation report pursuant to section 162 of the  hero se, section iii. notes to the individual balance sheet 
stock corporation act (aktg) presented in the section  items – equity, published on the website of  delivery  
 corporate governance report – compensation report of  hero se (https://ir.deliveryhero.com/websites/delivery/
the 2019 annual report is incorporated by reference into  english/3100/financial-reports.html).
this c ombined management report.
83
combined management report 
annual report 2019
through merger agreements dated june 27, 2019 and  02.  net assets, financial position and   the increase in revenue in 2019 was mainly attributable to 
shareholder approvals of june 26, 2019 and july 2, 2019,  result of operations of the company higher services recharges to group subsidiaries.
the wholly owned subsidiaries rgp local holding iv gmbh 
and luxembourg investment company 43 s.à r.l. were ful- a) results of operations other operating income increased by € 592.7 million year 
ly merged with delivery hero se. the assets of rgp local  the results of operations of delivery hero se are shown  on year due to the completion of the sale of the german 
holding iv gmbh were acquired with effect from janu- below in a summarized income statement: subsidiaries delivery hero germany gmbh and foodora 
ary 1, 2019 and those of luxembourg investment compa- gmbh to takeaway.com in 2019, which – at € 797.0 million – 
ny 43 s.à r.l. from may 1, 2019. the acquiring legal entity,  change has mainly driven the considerable increase in other oper-
delivery hero se, continued the carrying amounts of the    ating income. the disposal gain includes income not  related 
merged entities. the mergers were registered with the  eur million 2019 2018 eur million % to the accounting period in the amount of € 37.6 million 
company in august 2019 in the berlin-charlottenburg  from the reversal of the impairment of the stake in delivery  
commercial register. revenue 91.5 55.6 35.9 64.6 hero germany gmbh. other operating income in 2019 
increase or   further includes € 40.1 million of recharged costs incurred 
decrease in 
due to the mergers, the amounts in the balance sheet as  on behalf of group subsidiaries (previous year: € 38.1 million), 
 finished and
of december 31, 2019 are not comparable with those as  € 20.2 million (previous year: € 0.0 million) income from the 
unfinished prod-
at december 31, 2018 and the amounts in the income state- ucts and services –0.6 0.0 –0.6 n/a sale of shares and € 6.0 million (previous year: € 12.9 million) 
ment 2019 are not comparable with the previous year’s  other own work  of realized and unrealized foreign currency gains.
amounts. capitalized 3.8 1.5 2.3 > 100
other operating  the increase of € 1.9 million in material expenses compared 
the company is represented by its management board,  income 874.6 281.9 592.7 > 100 to the previous year results mainly from restaurant merchan-
which also determines the corporate strategy of the  material  dise and equipment, which was purchased as part of shared 
group. in its capacity as a group holding company,  expenses –7.8 –5.9 –1.9 32.2 service center functions for the group subsidiaries. 
delivery hero se maintains central functions including  personnel 
group controlling, group accounting, investor relations,  expenses –132.7 –79.0 –53.7 68.0 personnel expenses rose by € 53.7 million on the previous 
risk management, internal audit, corporate taxes, merg- depreciation,  year. this is primarily attributable to an increase in the num-
ers and acquisitions, treasury and human resources. amortization  ber of staff and increased share-based compensation 
and impairments –157.3 –110.7 –46.6 42.1
expenses (2019: € 47.7 million; previous year: € 15.9 million).
other operating 
expenses –307.5 –168.7 –138.8 82.3
other operating expenses increased by € 138.8 million to 
net interest 
€ 307.5 million, mainly due to merger losses of € 131.8 million 
result 38.4 16.9 21.5 > 100
from the merged companies rgp local holding iv gmbh 
income from 
  and luxembourg investment company 43 s.à r.l. results 
investments 57.2 3.3 53.9 > 100
( previous year: merger losses of € 65.8 million). in addition, 
earnings before 
expenses for impending losses were recognized in the 
taxes (ebt) 459.7 –5.0 464.7 > 100
amount of € 41.5 million resulting from the valuation of 
taxes –13.2 –2.0 –11.2 > 100
derivatives that were concluded as part of a multi-year 
net profit/loss 446.5 –7.0 453.6 > 100
 hedging transaction in relation to 3.2 million shares in 
84
combined management report 
annual report 2019
 takeaway.com (“collar transaction”). furthermore, the  income from investments relates to dividends received from  the negative cash flow from operating activities is mainly 
increase in other operating expenses is attributable to h igher  profitable group companies. the result of usual business payments, for example  personnel 
expenses for it and licenses of € 23.2 million (previous year:  and consulting expenses, which are only partially recharged 
€ 13.8 million), expenses for servers of € 12.0 million (previ- the disposal gain from the sale of german operations con- to the companies within the group as a result of the group-
ous year: € 4.7 million) and higher expenses for consulting  tributed significantly to the improvement of the net result  wide cost-allocation concept.
services of € 34.0 million (previous year: € 19.9 million). in 2019. 
the cash flow from investing activities mainly includes pay-
in connection with the planned transaction with woowa  the net profit in 2019 includes research and development  ments for investments in other companies, capital  increases 
 brothers corp., south korea, a transaction-dependent for- expenses of € 31.1 million (previous year: € 19.3 million).  in subsidiaries and payments for long-term loans to subsidi-
eign currency option (deal-contingent option) was conclud- further more, development costs of € 3.8 million (previous  aries totaling € 802.8 million. cash inflows of € 852.7 million 
ed on december 13, 2019 to hedge the usd-nominated cash  year: € 1.5 million) were capitalized in 2019. result from the sale of delivery hero  germany gmbh and 
component of the purchase price. as of the reporting date,  foodora gmbh and from dividends received. 
the valuation of the deal-contingent option resulted in a  b) financial position
loss of € 3.0 million. the following condensed cash flow statement (indirect  the positive cash flow from financing activities mainly 
method) shows the company’s financial position: results from cash receipts from capital increases in connec-
depreciation, amortization and impairments include amor- tion with the exercise of equity-settled stock options in the 
tization of intangible assets of € 4.8 million (previous year:  amount of € 27.6 million and cash receipts in the amount of 
€ 3.1 million), depreciation of property, plant and equipment  eur million 2019 2018 € 208.0 million from a loan in connection with the collar 
of € 2.6 million (previous year: € 2.0 million), impairment of  cash and cash equivalents   transaction. the loan is included in liabilities to banks.
shares in affiliated companies of € 67.7 million (previous year:  at the beginning of the 
financial year 111.4 403.0
€ 28.7 million), impairment of shares in equity investments 
of € 1.5 million (previous year: € 0.0 million), and impairment  cash flows from operating 
activities –130.8 –38.1
of loans of € 80.0 million (previous year: € 58.4 million) as 
cash flows from investing 
well as trade receivables from third parties (€ 0.6 million; 
activities 37.7 –261.7
previous year: € 3.3 million) and trade receivables from affili-
cash flows from financing 
ated companies (€ 0.1 million; previous year: € 11.0 million).
activities 232.8 5.6
net change in cash and  
in 2019, the impairment of shares in and loans to affiliated 
cash equivalents 139.7 –294.2
companies and receivables from affiliated companies relat-
effect of movements in 
ed to entities in south america (€ 84.6 million), asia 
exchange rates on cash and 
(€ 27.8 million), middle east (€ 15.1 million) and europe  cash equivalents 1.1 2.6
(€ 20.3 million).
cash and cash equivalents 
at the end of the financial 
year 252.2 111.4
85
combined management report 
annual report 2019
c) net assets the total assets of delivery hero se increased by 29.8 % in 
net assets are illustrated by means of a condensed balance  2019. this increase results primarily from the sale of the 
sheet: german companies and payments from a loan that 
delivery hero received as part of the collar transaction. the 
dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018 company used the funds received to finance its affiliates. 
   
eur million share (%) eur million share (%) change (%) non-current assets as at december 31, 2019 mainly com-
  prised shares in affiliated companies (€ 1,479.0 million; pre-
assets vious year: € 1,686.3 million), investments (€ 269.3 million; 
non-current assets 3,005.4 87.4 2,421.4 91.4 24.1 previous year: € 206.2 million), loans to affiliated compa-
current assets 421.1 12.3 222.8 8.4 89.0 nies (€ 766.9 million; previous year: € 500.4 million); and 
securities (€ 464.3 million; previous year: € 7.3 million).
prepaid expenses 10.3 0.3 4.4 0.2 > 100
total assets 3,436.8   2,648.6   29.8
current assets as at december 31, 2019 consisted primarily 
 
of cash and cash equivalents of € 252.1 million (previous 
liabilities
year: € 111.4 million) and receivables and other assets of 
equity 3,074.3 89.5 2,563.3 96.8 19.9
€ 164.2 million (previous year: € 106.2 million).
provisions 139.5 4.1 22.0 0.5 > 100
liabilities 222.0 6.5 62.2 2.3 > 100
deferred income 1.0 0.0 1.1 0.0 –12.2
total equity and liabilities 3,436.8   2,648.6   29.8
86
combined management report 
annual report 2019
equity increased to € 3,074.3 million as of december 31,  d) overall assessment
2019 (previous year: € 2,563.3 million) as a result of the pos- overall, the management assesses the company’s net 
itive net result of € 446.5 million driven by the sale of the  assets, financial position and results of operations as pos-
german business and due to additions to the capital reserve  itive. due to the disposal gain from the sale of the  german 
for services received as part of the share-based compensa- entities, a significantly positive net result was achieved, 
tion programs. the equity ratio is 89.5 % (previous year:  which substantially strengthened the financial position 
96.8 %) and has slightly decreased compared to the previ- of the company.
ous year.
the net result in 2019 is decisively driven by the disposal 
provisions mainly comprise € 44.8 million for the deal-con- gain from the sale of the german entities. as it is assumed 
tingent obligation to pay the option premium of the  that the expansion in the asian segment and the expan-
deal-contingent option that was concluded in order to hedge  sion of vertical services within the group will result in an 
the usd-nominated purchase price liability of the planned  increase in costs also at central level, delivery hero 
woowa transaction in south korea), provisions for invoices  expects that the annual result for 2020 will be  significantly 
not yet received (€ 28.6 million; previous year: € 15.1 million),  lower than the result of the current reporting period, 
provisions for share-based compensation (€ 10.5 million;  based on the assumed cost increase and the disposal gain 
previous year: € 0.0 million) and provisions for personnel  from the sale of the german operations that was recog-
expenses (€ 3.4 million; previous year: € 2.0 million). further,  nized in 2019.
a contingent loss provision in the amount of € 41.5 million 
(previous year: € 0.0 million) was recognized for the valua-  
tion of derivatives that were concluded as part of the collar  berlin, april 22, 2020
transaction. 
the liabilities as of december 31, 2019 of € 222.0 million 
(previous year: € 62.2 million) mainly include the liability 
from a loan granted as part of the collar transaction 
(€ 208.0 million). all loans to other delivery hero group 
companies that were included in the previous year were 
repaid in 2019 (previous year: € 54.2 million).
niklas östberg  emmanuel thomassin
chief executive officer  chief financial officer
87
consolidated financial statements 
consolidated  
consolidated statement of financial position page 89
consolidated statement of profit or loss  
and other comprehensive income page 90
financial   consolidated statement of changes in equity page 91
consolidated statement of cash flows page 93
statements
notes to the consolidated f inancial statements page 94
a. general information page 94
b. accounting policies page 94
c.  changes in accounting policies,  
new standards and interpretations  
that have not yet been applied page 104
d. scope of consolidation page 106
e. operating segments page 112
f.  disclosures on the consolidated  statement  
of financial position page 114
g.  disclosures on the consolidated  statement  
of comprehensive income page 129
h. other disclosures page 135
 i. subsequent events page 152
responsibility statement page 154
independent auditor's report page 155
try out our interactive table of contents.  
you will be directed to the selected page.
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
consolidated statement of financial position
assets equity and liabilities
eur million note dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018 eur million note dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018
   
non-current assets equity
intangible assets f. 01. 1,046.7 878.0 f. 09. a) 
share capital / subscribed capital and b) 188.8 185.9
property, plant and equipment f. 02. 193.4 38.8
capital reserves f. 09. c) 2,745.6 2,688.2
other financial assets f. 03. 395.2 49.8
retained earnings and other reserves f. 09. d) –1,062.8 –1,256.7
other assets f. 05. 1.8 0.3
treasury shares f. 09. e) –0.1 –0.1
deferred tax assets  f. 06. 0.4 0.0
equity attributable to shareholders  
investments accounted for using  
of the parent company 1,871.5 1,617.4
the equity method d. 03. c) 85.6 162.3
non-controlling interests –2.0 –2.3
1,723.0 1,129.2
1,869.5 1,615.0
 
current assets    
non-current liabilities
inventories f. 07. 8.4 3.1
pension provisions f. 10. 5.7 2.7
trade and other receivables f. 04. 129.4 85.1
other provisions f. 11. 6.9 6.2
other financial assets f. 03. 41.8 –
trade and other payables f. 12. 132.6 8.6
other assets f. 05. 65.6 54.5
other liabilities f. 13. 4.1 3.2
income tax receivables f. 14. 5.0 2.2
deferred tax liabilities f. 06. 36.1 41.8
cash and cash equivalents f. 08. 699.4 364.1
    185.4 62.5
assets included in a disposal group classified  
as held for sale d. 03. e)  – 366.8  
current liabilities  
949.6 875.8
other provisions f. 11. 47.2 4.9
total assets 2,672.7 2,005.0
trade and other payables f. 12. 472.9 172.0
other liabilities f. 13. 77.4 68.4
income tax liabilities f. 14. 20.4 7.3
liabilities included in a disposal group  
classified as held for sale d. 03. e) – 74.8
617.9 327.4
total equity and liabilities 2,672.7 2,005.0
89
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
consolidated statement of profit or loss  
and other comprehensive income
eur million note 2019 2018 eur million note 2019 2018
   
continuing operations other comprehensive income (net)
revenue g. 01. 1,237.6 665.1 items not reclassified to profit or loss:
cost-of-sales g. 02. –926.4 –318.0 remeasurement of net liability (asset) arising  
on defined benefit pension plans f. 09. e) –1.3 –0.4
gross profit 311.2 347.2
items reclassified to profit or loss in the future:
marketing expenses g. 03. –495.2 –313.9
effect of movements in exchange rates f. 09. e) –27.4 –93.0
it expenses g. 04. –94.8 –54.3
other comprehensive income –28.7 –93.4
general administrative expenses g. 05. –373.5 –217.2
total comprehensive income for the period 201.5 –135.6
other operating income g. 06. 19.9 10.0
net result for the period attributable to:
other operating expenses g. 07. –6.7 –9.2
shareholders of the parent 231.4 –38.2
impairment losses on trade receivables  
and other assets g. 07. –8.8 –4.3 non-controlling interests –1.1 –4.0
operating result –648.0 –241.7 total comprehensive income attributable to:
net interest result g. 08. –9.4 2.8 shareholders of the parent 202.7 –131.6
other financial result g. 09. 93.7 18.8 non-controlling interests –1.1 –4.0
share of the profit or loss of associates  diluted and basic earnings per share  
accounted for using the equity method d. 03. e) –99.7 –38.6 from continuing operations in eur –3.62 –1.47
earnings before income taxes –663.4 –258.8 diluted and basic earnings per share  
from continued and discontinued operations  
income taxes g. 10. –26.5 –18.3
in eur 1.22 –0.21
net loss for the period from  
continuing operations –689.9 –277.1
net income for the period from  
discontinued operations 920.2 234.8
net result  230.2 –42.2
90
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
consolidated statement of changes in equity
jan. 1, 2019–dec. 31, 2019
attributable to the owners of the parent
retained earnings and other reserves
revaluation 
currency  reserve  
subscribed  capital  retained   translation  for pension  treasury   minority  total
eur million capital  reserves  earnings  reserve  commitments shares total  interests equity
 
note f. 09. a) and b) f. 09. c) f. 09. d) f. 09. d) f. 09. d) f. 09. e)    
balance as of jan. 1, 2019 185.9 2,688.2 –971.5 –284.3 –0.9 –0.1 1,617.4 –2.3 1,615.0
net result – – 231.4 – – – 231.4 –1.1 230.2
other comprehensive income – – – –27.4 –1.3 – –28.7 0.0 –28.7
total comprehensive income – – 231.4 –27.4 –1.3 – 202.7 –1.1 201.5
 
transactions with owners – payments received  
and change in non-controlling interests  
capital increases 2.8 24.7 – – – – 27.5 – 27.5
equity-settled share-based payments – 32.7 – – – – 32.7 – 32.7
acquisition of non-controlling interests  
without change of control – – – – – – – – –
other changes to equity – – –8.81 – – – –8.8 1.4 –7.4
transactions with owners 2.8 57.4 –8.8 – – – 51.4 1.4 52.8
balance as of dec. 31, 2019 188.8 2,745.6 –749.0 –311.6 –2.2 –0.1 1,871.5 –2.0 1,869.5
1 includes results from hyperinflationary economies of € –8.8 million.
91
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
jan. 1, 2018–dec. 31, 2018
attributable to the owners of the parent
retained earnings and other reserves
revaluation 
currency  reserve   non-  
subscribed  capital    retained   translation  for pension  treasury   controlling  total  
eur million  capital reserves  earnings  reserve  commitments shares total interests equity
 
note f. 09. a) and b) f. 09. c) f. 09. d) f. 09. d) f. 09. d) f. 09. e)  
balance as of jan. 1, 2018 182.5 2,661.3 –932.8 –191.3 –0.5 – 1,719.3 1.5 1,720.9
net loss – – –38.2 – – – –38.2 –4.0 –42.2
other comprehensive income – – – –93.0 –0.4 – –93.4 – –93.4
total comprehensive income – – –38.2 –93.0 –0.4 – –131.6 –4.0 –135.6
 
transactions with owners – payments received  
and change in non-controlling interests  
capital increases 3.4 8.1 – – – – 11.5 – 11.5
equity-settled share-based payments – 18.8 – – – – 18.8 – 18.8
acquisition of non-controlling interests  
without change of control – – –0.6 – – – –0.6 0.3 –0.3
other changes – – – – – –0.1 –0.1 – –0.1
transactions with owners 3.4 26.9 –0.6 – – –0.1 29.6 0.3 29.9
balance as of dec. 31, 2018 185.9 2,688.2 –971.5 –284.3 –0.9 –0.1 1,617.4 –2.3 1,615.0
92
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
consolidated statement of cash flows
   
eur million note 2019 2018 eur million note 2019 2018
  proceeds (+)/payments (–) for investments  
1. cash flows from operating activities in other financial assets   381.8 –15.6
net result 230.2 –42.2 net payments for loans to third parties   –0.5 –1.3
income taxes 29.9 5.4 net payments for acquisitions b. 02. b) –133.2 –18.7
income tax paid –15.3 –13.6 net proceeds from the sale of subidiaries  
or discontinued operations d. 03. e) 487.5 232.6
amortization, depreciation and write-downs f. 01./f. 02. 99.6 57.9
payments for the acquisition of  
write downs of financial assets 0.8 0.0
equity investments f. 08. –24.5 –190.6
increase (+)/decrease (–) in provisions f. 10. 44.2 –11.5
interest received 7.3 4.8
non-cash expenses from share-based payments g. 05. 44.8 17.2
dividends received (+) 0.2 0.0
other non-cash expenses (+) and income (–)   79.0 25.5
cash flows from investing activities 627.3 –37.1
gain (–)/loss (+) on disposals  
 
of non-current assets   –20.4 0.5
3. cash flows from financing activities
gain on deconsolidation d. 03. d) –938.6 –270.0
proceeds from capital contributions f. 09. 27.6 12.0
increase in inventories, trade receivables  
proceeds from loans and borrowings 175.0 0.1
and other assets   –54.3 –2.7
repayments of loans and borrowings –202.6 –1.3
increase in trade and other payables   189.4 71.6
interest paid –0.2 –0.2
interest and similar income (–)/  g. 08./ 
expense (+) g. 09. –54.1 –2.7 cash flows from financing activities –0.1 10.6
cash flows from operating activities –364.8 –164.6  
4.  cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period
 
2. cash flows from investing activities net change in cash and cash equivalents 262.4 –191.1
proceeds from the disposal of property,   effect of exchange rate movements  
plant and equipment 1.6 0.7 on cash and cash equivalents –2.8 –10.1
payments for investments in property,   cash and cash equivalents  
plant and equipment f. 02. –69.2 –29.6 at the beginning of the period 1 f. 08. 439.8 640.9
proceeds from disposal of intangible assets   2.1 0.3 cash and cash equivalents  
at the end of period 1 699.4 439.8
payments for investments in intangible assets f. 01. –25.9 –19.7
1  cash of € 75.7 million included in a disposal group classified as held for sale as of december 31, 2018.
93
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
notes to the consolidated   the consolidated financial statements are prepared in euros.  b. accounting policies
financial statements
this is the first set of consolidated financial statements of  the financial statements of the company and of the 
a. general information dh group in which ifrs 16 has been applied. changes to   subsidiaries are prepared according to uniform accounting 
significant accounting policies are described in section c. policies. unless otherwise stated, the group consistently 
01. company information applied the following accounting policies to all periods 
the delivery hero group (also: dh, dh group, delivery   argentina continues to be considered a hyperinflationary  presented in these consolidated financial statements.
hero or group) offers online food ordering and delivery  economy. accordingly, the group applied the hyperinfla-
services in more than 40 countries on five continents,  tionary accounting requirements of ias 29 – financial  01. methods of consolidation
 africa, asia, europe, north america and south america.  reporting in hyperinflationary economies to its a  rgen tinian 
operations.  a) subsidiaries
delivery hero se is the parent company and is domiciled at  subsidiaries are entities directly or indirectly controlled by 
oranienburger strasse 70, 10117 berlin, germany (the “com- in accordance with ifrs 5 the german business was classi- the company. the company controls an entity when it is 
pany”). it is registered with the commercial register of the  fied as a discontinued operation in december 2018. the sale  exposed to variable returns from its involvement with the 
local court, berlin charlottenburg under hrb 198015 b.  of the german operations was completed on april 1, 2019  entity and has the ability to affect those returns through 
(refer to section d.03.e). its ability to use power over the entity. subsidiaries are 
the consolidated financial statements and the combined  consolidated in the consolidated financial statements of 
management report were authorized for issue by the  unless otherwise stated, all figures have been rounded to  the group. first-time consolidation occurs at the date of 
 management board on april 22, 2020. the nearest € million. disclosures on changes are based on  obtaining control. 
exact values. in addition, for computational reasons, there 
02.  basis of preparation of the consolidated financial  may be rounding differences to the exact mathematical  the group accounts for business combinations applying 
statements in accordance with ifrs values in tables and references. the acquisition method. in applying the acquisition 
the consolidated financial statements of dh group have   method, the consideration transferred and the net assets 
been prepared in accordance with the international finan- the consolidated financial statements and the combined  identified are measured at fair value. a positive difference 
cial reporting standards (ifrs) adopted and issued by the  management report are published in the german federal  between the consideration transferred and the identifiable 
international accounting standards board (iasb), as adopted  gazette (bundesanzeiger). net asset is capitalized as goodwill. a negative difference 
by the european union. the preparation of the consolidated  is immediately recognized in profit or loss.
financial statements occurred under application of the  the preparation of consolidated financial statements in 
 provisions of regulation (ec) no 1606/2002 of the euro- accordance with ifrs requires judgments, estimates and  non-controlling interests constitute the share of profit or 
pean parliament and of the council of july 19, 2002, on the  assumptions that affect the application of accounting poli- loss and net assets in a subsidiary that is not attributed to 
application of international accounting standards in  cies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,  the parent’s shareholders and are presented separately. 
 conjunction with section 315e (1) of the german commer- income and expense. actual results may differ from these  changes in the group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not 
cial code (hgb) taking into consideration the supplemen- estimates. areas involving a higher degree of judgment or  result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity 
tary provisions of german commercial law. areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to  transactions. 
the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in 
 section b.14.
94
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
obligations arising from written put options issued to  02. currency translation when a foreign operation is disposed of, the cumulative 
holders of non-controlling interests are accounted for as  the functional currency of the subsidiaries included in the  amount of foreign exchange reserve related to that foreign 
financial liabilities and the related non-controlling inter- consolidated financial statements of the group is usually  operation is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain 
ests are no longer recognized. the respective local currency, unless it is assessed to be dif- or loss on disposal.
ferent than the local currency due to specific circumstances. 
when the group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecog- the consolidated financial statements are presented in euros  03. recognition of revenue
nizes the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary and all  (presentation currency). dh group generates revenue mainly from providing online 
related non-controlling interests and other equity compo- food ordering services to restaurants, prime placement 
nents. any gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. any  transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the  and other advertising services. 
retained interest in the former subsidiary is recognized at  functional currency at the exchange rate on the trans-
fair value on the date when control was lost. action date. monetary assets and liabilities denominated  for the online marketplace services, dh group entities act 
in foreign currencies are translated into the functional cur- as an agent. the company also offers delivery services. the 
expenses and income, as well as receivables and payables  rency at the exchange rate at each reporting date. foreign  dh group entities carry out the delivery services as princi-
between consolidated entities, are eliminated along with  exchange gains and losses are generally recognized in  pal. for advertising services, dh group entities act also as 
intragroup profits and losses arising from intragroup  profit or loss. exchange differences arising on a monetary  principal.
transactions. item that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment 
in a foreign operation are recognized in oci in the consoli- the revenue is recognized when the control passes to the 
the list of shareholdings in section h.10. contains a detailed  dated financial statements. customer. the control over the online marketplace services 
overview of all the subsidiaries. passes to the customer at a point in time when the meal is 
for the purposes of inclusion in the consolidated financial  ordered. the control over the delivery services passes at a 
b) associates  statements, the assets and liabilities (including goodwill  point in time when the meal is delivered. the control over 
associates are entities in which the group has a significant  and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition) of  the advertising services mainly passes over time. 
influence, which is presumed in case of a holding of   subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro are 
between 20% and 50% of voting rights or if an ability to  translated into euros at the exchange rates at the reporting  the consideration for the online marketplace services with 
exercise significant influence can clearly be demonstrated.  date. income and expenses are translated into euros at the  and without delivery primarily comprise commission fees. 
as of the reporting date, the group had five (previous year:  dates of the transactions, approximated by average  further included in the consideration are online payment 
five) associates included at-equity in the consolidated  exchange rates. fees if the orderer selects the online payment option and 
financial statements. they are listed in the list of share- subscription fees. if an additional delivery fee is charged 
holdings in section h.10. for entities operating in a hyperinflationary economic envi- directly to orderers this is also included in the consider-
ronment, the inflation effects of the origin country are rec- ation. the payments are collected via online payment pro-
as in the prior years, the group did not have any joint  ognized pursuant to ias 29. results and financial positions  viders, as cash or via invoices to the restaurants. for 
arrangements according to ifrs 11 as of the reporting date. of the entities are translated into euros at the exchange   services performed over time, at each reporting date, the 
rates at the reporting date.  revenue is recognized in the amount to which the dh 
95
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
group entity has a right to invoice. since the advertising  in the reporting year, depreciation was based on the  internal development expenditure is capitalized if devel-
services are mainly provided as a series of distinct monthly   following useful lives: opment costs can be reliably measured, the product or 
services, this provides a faithful depiction of the transfer  process is technically and commercially feasible, future 
of the services. useful life in years benefit is probable and the group intends – and has suffi-
cient resources to be able – to complete development and 
invoices are generated on a weekly, bi-weekly or monthly  2019 2018 to use or sell the asset. other expenditures are recognized 
basis based on an individual contractual agreement. the    in profit or loss when they are incurred. capitalized devel-
 payment terms vary between two and 90 days. any dis- operating and   opment expenditure is measured at cost less accumulated 
office equipment 2–15 2–15
counts are treated as a reduction of revenue. if the trans- amortization and impairment losses. 
action price includes a variable amount, the transaction  leasehold improvements 2–20 3–17
price is estimated and recognized to the extent that it is  amortization is based on the following useful lives:
highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of 
cumulative revenue will not occur when the uncertainty  if there is objective evidence that items of property, plant  useful life in years
associated with the variable consideration is subsequently  and equipment are impaired, the recoverable amount is 
resolved. determined. if the carrying amount exceeds the recover- 2019 2018
able amount, impairment losses are recognized directly in   
for the sale and delivery of a variety of grocery items  the statement of profit or loss. if the requirements for  software 2–5 2–5
through our delivery-only stores (“dark stores”) delivery   impairment are no longer in place in subsequent years,  trademarks 3–25 3–25
hero acts as a principal. the revenue is composed of the  previous impairment losses are reversed. customer and  
merchandise value of ordered items and delivery fees  supplier  relationships 3–10 3–10
charged to the customer. revenue is recognized when  repair and maintenance expenses are expensed at the 
 control over the ordered items passes to the customer. time of their occurrence. material innovations and 
improvements are capitalized. the expected useful life of a trademark is forecast in accor-
04. property, plant and equipment dance with verifiable history and observable user behavior. 
items of property, plant and equipment are measured at  an item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized  the underlying useful life of customer and supplier 
cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment  on disposal (when the recipient obtains control of that   relationships is determined individually corresponding to 
losses.  item) or when no future economic benefits are expected   historical restaurant churn rates. 
from its use or disposal.
depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the 
time period of the expected useful life of the asset. 05. intangible assets and goodwill
intangible assets acquired separately are recognized at 
costs. intangible assets acquired in a business combination 
except for goodwill are initially measured at their fair value 
and subsequently at cost. the amortization is calculated 
on a straight-line basis over the individual useful lives. 
goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment 
losses.
96
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
impairment of intangible assets an impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed.  the lease liability is initially measured at the present value 
intangible assets are tested for impairment as part of a  for other assets, an impairment loss is reversed only to the  of the lease payments that are not paid at the commence-
cash generating unit (cgu), which is defined as the smallest  extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed  ment date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in 
group of assets that generates cash inflows from continu- the carrying amount that would have been determined,  the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the 
ing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of  net of amortization, if no impairment loss had been  group’s incremental borrowing rate. generally, the group 
other assets or cgus. goodwill arising from a business com- recognized. uses its incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate. 
bination is allocated to cgus or groups of cgus depending  the lease liability is subsequently measured at amortized 
on the level at which it is monitored by management. 06. leases costs using the effective interest method. it is remeasured 
a right-of-use asset and a lease liability are recognized at  when there is a change in future lease payments arising 
a cgu or a group of cgus is tested for impairment if  the lease commencement date. the right-of-use asset is  from a change in an index or rate, or if the group changes 
impairment indicators are present. in addition, cgus and  initially measured at cost, which comprise the lease liability  the assessment of whether a purchase or lease extension 
groups of cgus to which goodwill is allocated are subject  adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the  option is exercised, or a termination option is not 
to an annual impairment test. commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred  exercised.
and an estimate of costs to restore the underlying asset, 
an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount  less any lease incentives received. it is subsequently depre- when the lease liability is remeasured, a corresponding 
of a cgu exceeds its recoverable amount. the recoverable  ciated on a straight-line basis from the commencement  adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the right-
amount corresponds to the larger of fair value less costs  date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the asset  of-use asset or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying 
of disposal and value in use of the cgu or a group of cgus. or the end of the lease term. the right-of-use asset is  amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero.
reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for 
the fair value less costs of disposal of the cgu is calculated   certain remeasurements of the lease liability. the group presents right-of-use assets in “property, plant 
by applying the discounted cash flow method, as follows:  and equipment”, and lease liabilities in “trade and other 
the expected future cash flows are determined based on  except for short-term leases of transport vehicles, the  payables”.
a detailed planning period of five years for each cgu. for  group has elected to apply the recognition exemptions to 
the perpetuity, the expected future cash flows are deter- leases of low-value assets and short-term leases with a  in order to determine the lease term for lease contracts in 
mined under consideration of cgu-specific revenue- and  (remaining) lease term of twelve months or less. the group  which the group is a lessee that include renewal or termi-
ebitda-growth assumptions. impairment losses are rec- recognizes the lease payments associated with these leases  nation, options judgments is applied to assess the exercise 
ognized in profit or loss. they are allocated first to reduce  as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. of the respective option. 
the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cgu, 
and then to reduce the carrying amounts of other assets 
in the cgu on a pro rata basis.
97
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
as explained in note c – changes in significant accounting  for all other inventory items, the first-in, first-out method  available against which deductible temporary differences 
policies, in the comparative period the group determined  (fifo) is used to measure costs. net realizable value is the  and/or loss carryforwards can be utilized.
whether the arrangement was or contained a lease in  estimated selling price less estimated costs of completion 
accordance with the previously effective ias 17 leases. and estimated costs necessary to finalize the sale. deferred taxes are measured in accordance with ias 12. 
they are measured at the tax rates that are expected to 
under ias 17, leases of property, plant and equipment in  08. income taxes apply to the period when the asset is realized or the liabil-
which the group, as lessee, has substantially all the risks  taxes on income for the period are the sum of current and  ity is settled.
and rewards of ownership, were classified as finance  deferred income taxes.
 leases. for finance lease arrangements the asset was rec- the change in deferred taxes is recognized in the state-
ognized at an amount equal to the fair value of the leased  a) current income taxes ment of profit or loss provided it relates to items in the 
property or – if lower – at the present value of the mini- the current income tax expense is calculated by applying  consolidated statement of financial positions that were 
mum lease payments and depreciated over its useful life.  the tax regulations enacted as of the reporting date in the  recognized in the statement of profit or loss. if the items 
the corresponding payment obligations from future lease  countries in which the dh group operates. in assessing  in the consolidated statement of financial position are rec-
 payments net of finance charges were included in other  income tax positions, estimates are required. the assess- ognized directly in equity or other comprehensive income, 
current and non-current liabilities. ment by the respective tax authorities may deviate. this  the corresponding changes in deferred taxes are also rec-
uncertainty is reflected by recognizing uncertain tax posi- ognized in these line items, respectively. 
if lease arrangements in which the group was a lessee did  tions only if dh assesses the probability of acceptance of 
not meet the criteria for finance leases they were classified  the uncertain tax treatment by the tax authorities as less  deferred tax assets and liabilities arising through tempo-
as operating leases. lease payments were recognized as  than 50%.  rary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, 
expenses on a straight-line basis over the lease term. associates or joint arrangements are taken into account 
b) deferred income taxes unless the date for reversal of temporary differences can-
note c also explains the changes between the previous  deferred taxes are recognized on temporary differences  not be determined at group level or/and it is probable that 
and current treatment of lease arrangements. between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in  the temporary differences will not reverse in the foresee-
the consolidated financial statements and the corre- able future. 
07. inventories sponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable 
inventories are carried at cost, which is determined on the  income. furthermore, deferred tax assets are recognized  deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if 
basis of direct production costs and production-related  for tax loss carryforwards. the group has a legally enforceable right to set off current 
overheads. inventories are carried at the lower of cost and  tax assets against current tax liabilities, and deferred tax 
net realizable value as of each reporting date.  deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable tem- assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the 
porary differences.  same taxation authority and concern the same taxable 
cost includes all costs of purchase, production and other  entity. 
costs that are incurred in bringing the inventories to their  deferred tax assets are recognized for temporary differ-
present location and condition. for the inventory of dark  ences and tax loss carryforwards to the extent to which it 
stores, costs are measured by the weighted average costs.  is probable that sufficient future taxable income will be 
98
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
09. financial instruments “principal” is the fair value of the financial asset on initial  fair value through profit or loss financial assets (fvtpl)
recognition and “interest” is consideration for the time  when a financial asset is not measured at amortized cost 
a) financial assets  value of money and for the credit risk associated with the  or at fair value through other comprehensive income 
initial measurement of financial assets principal amount outstanding during a particular period  (fvtoci – currently not relevant for the group), a financial 
at initial recognition, the group measures a financial asset  of time and for other basic lending risks and costs (e.g.,  asset is classified as “at fair value through profit or loss” 
at its fair value plus, in the case of financial assets not mea- liquidity risk and administrative costs), as well as a profit  and measured at fair value with changes in fair value rec-
sured at fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs  margin. when assessing the contractual terms, the group  ognized in profit or loss as “finance gain” or “finance loss”.
that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the finan- considers contingent events that would change the 
cial asset. transaction costs of a financial asset measured  amount or timing of cash flows; terms that may adjust the  in dh group these instruments are represented by invest-
at fair value through profit or loss are recognized in profit  contractual interest rate, including variable rate features;  ments in other companies. no financial assets are desig-
or loss. a trade receivable is initially measured at the trans- prepayment and extension features; and terms that limit  nated as at fair value through profit or loss.
action price. the group’s claim to cash flows from specified assets (e.g., 
non recourse features). impairment of financial assets 
classification of financial assets all financial assets to which impairment requirements 
the group classifies financial assets at initial recognition  after initial recognition, the carrying amount of the finan- apply carry a loss allowance estimated based on expected 
as financial assets measured at amortized cost, financial  cial asset measured at amortized cost is determined using  credit losses (“ecls”). ecls are a probability-weighted 
assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive  the effective interest method, net of impairment loss.  estimate of the present value of a cash shortfall over the 
income (not applicable at the reporting date) or financial  expected life of the financial instrument.
assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. within dh group such financial assets are represented by 
cash and cash equivalents, receivables against payment  in dh group, the impairment requirements apply mainly to 
financial assets measured at amortized cost  service providers, trade receivables, loans granted, secu- financial assets measured at amortized cost and right-of-use 
a financial asset that meets both of the following condi- rity deposits and other receivables. assets in the scope of ifrs 16. 
tions is classified as a financial asset measured at amor-
tized cost. cash and cash equivalents comprise all cash-related assets  trade receivable and contract assets
that have a remaining term of less than three months at  the group uses a practical expedient to calculate the 
—   the financial asset is held within the group’s business  the date of acquisition or investment. this includes mainly  expected credit losses on its trade receivables and contract 
model whose objective is to hold assets in order to  cash at banks and cash on hand. cash and cash equivalents  assets using a provision matrix. the group uses historical 
collect contractual cash flows; and are measured at nominal value. credit loss experience (adjusted if necessary for changes 
—   the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise  in macroeconomic conditions) to estimate the lifetime 
on specified dates to cash flows that are solely pay- expected credit losses. the impairment losses calculated 
ments of principal and interest on the principal  using the provision matrix are recorded on a separate 
amount outstanding.  allowance account.
99
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
trade receivables, overdue for more than 120 days, or  all other financial assets of the group recognized at the  interest income and expenses arising on financial instru-
 specifically impaired (e.g., insolvency of the restaurant),  reporting date have low credit risk. the group recognizes  ments are recognized in profit or loss according to the 
are deemed not recoverable. such trade receivables are  in profit or loss, as an impairment gain or loss, the amount  effective interest method.
recognized as impaired and written off. the write-off con- of expected credit losses (or reversal) that is required to 
stitutes a derecognition event whereby the gross c arrying  adjust the loss allowance at the reporting date to the  the group derecognizes the financial assets when the con-
amount of such trade receivables is reduced against the  amount that is required to be recognized. tractual rights to the cash flows from the assets expire, or 
corresponding amount previously recorded on the allow- it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows 
ance account. however, financial assets that are written  b) financial liabilities in a transaction in which substantially all of the risks and 
off could still be subject to enforcement activities in order  financial liabilities are classified as those measured at fair  rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. 
to comply with the group’s procedures for recovery of  value through profit or loss or those measured at amor- the group derecognizes a financial liability when its con-
amounts due.  tized cost.  tractual obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire. 
other financial assets no financial liabilities are designated as at fair value  in addition, if the contractual terms of a financial instru-
the ecls for all other financial assets are recognized in two  through profit or loss.  ment are amended, the financial instrument is derecog-
stages: nized if the amended terms are materially different from 
financial liabilities are initially  recognized at fair value, in  the original terms. in that case, the new financial instru-
—   for financial assets for which there has not been a sig- case of financial liabilities m  easured at amortized cost,  ment is recognized at fair value taking into account the 
nificant increase in credit risk since initial recognition,  plus transaction costs. amended terms. 
the group recognizes credit losses that represent the 
lifetime shortfalls that would result if a default occurs  financial liabilities of the group that are measured at fair  financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the 
in the twelve months after the reporting date or a  value through profit or loss comprise contingent con- net amount is presented in the statement of financial posi-
shorter period if the expected life of a financial instru- siderations recognized by the group as an acquirer in a  tion when, and only when, the group has a legally enforce-
ment is less than twelve months.   business combination. all other financial liabilities are  able right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle 
—   for those financial assets for which there has been a  measured at amortized cost, using the effective interest  them on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the 
significant increase in credit risk since initial recogni- method. liability simultaneously.
tion, a loss allowance reflects credit losses expected 
over the remaining life of the financial asset. c) other requirements if the group has the right to settle financial instruments in 
regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are  a fixed number of own shares, such financial instruments 
recognized at the price on the trade date. are classified as equity.
100
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
10. employee benefits the interest rate effect included in pension expenses is  extent the services were received is reclassified to liabil-
recognized in profit or loss under interest expenses.  ities. if the fair value of the cash-settled awards exceeds 
a) current employee benefits  service cost is shown in individual functional areas in  the amount previously recognized in equity, the excess is 
current employee benefits are expensed in the period   operating profit/loss. recognized as an expense in profit or loss, if it is lower than 
when service is rendered. a liability is recognized for the  the amount previously recognized in equity, no gain will 
amount expected to be paid if the dh group has a present  c) share-based payments be recognized for the difference. the liability will be 
legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount, as a  dh group operates several share-based compensation  remeasured in accordance with the general principles for 
result of past services provided by the employee, and the   programs. the group classifies its share-based compen- cash-settled plans.
obligation can be reliably estimated. sation programs as either cash-settled or equity-settled 
depending on the terms and conditions of the individual  11. other provisions
b) pension obligations program and the group’s intention to settle the awards  other provisions are set up if a legal or constructive obli-
pension and similar obligations arise from the commit- with cash or its own equity instruments. gation to the group resulting from a past event exists, its 
ments of a group entity to its employees. the obligations  fulfilment is probable and its amount can be reliably deter-
of these defined benefit plans are measured using the pro- the grant-date fair value of equity-settled share-based  mined. recognition is made in the amount of the expected 
jected unit credit method. under this method, expected  payment arrangements granted to employees is recog- settlement amount. 
future increases in salaries and pensions are taken into  nized as an expense, with a corresponding increase in the 
account in addition to the known pension entitlements at  capital reserves in equity, over the vesting period of the  due to estimation uncertainties, the amount, i.e., the actual 
the reporting date. awards. the amount recognized as an expense is adjusted  outflow of resources, may deviate from the original 
to reflect forfeited awards. amounts recognized on the basis of estimates.
pension obligations are determined by independent actu-
aries. effects arising from the remeasurement of actuarial  the fair value of cash-settled arrangements is recognized  non-current provisions are recognized at the discounted 
gains and losses, the return on plan assets (excluding inter- as an expense with a corresponding increase in liabilities  settlement amount as of the reporting date based on 
est) and the impact of any asset ceiling (excluding interest)  over the period during which the employees become   corresponding term and risk adequate interest rates.
are recognized in other comprehensive income. the dis- unconditionally entitled to payment. the liability is re mea-
count rate stated reflects the interest rate generated by  sured at each reporting date and at settlement date based  12. determination of fair value
senior fixed-interest bonds with matching maturities on  on the fair value of the awards. any changes in the liability  fair value is the price that would be received to sell an 
the reporting date. are recognized in profit or loss. asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at the measurement date in 
the fair value of any plan assets is deducted from the dis- if a share-based program is reclassified from equity-settled  the primary market or, if this is not available, the most 
counted pension obligation. into cash-settled, the amount of the obligation reflecting  advantageous market. 
the fair value of the awards at the modification date to the 
101
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
the fair value hierarchy defines three levels of fair value  discontinued operations are components of an entity that  a) judgments
measurements depending on the input factors used in  are either held for sale or have already been sold and can  revenue recognition of commissions
determining the fair value: be clearly distinguished from other corporate operations,  dh group considers itself an agent with respect to the 
both operationally and for financial reporting purposes.  provision of online food ordering services via its internet 
—   level 1: fair value is based on quoted prices  additionally, the component classified as a discontinued  platforms as dh group is neither (i) the obligor for the 
 (unadjusted) in an active market for identical assets  operation must represent a major business line or a s pecific  ordered food, (ii) exposed to the inventory risk nor (iii) has 
or liabilities. geographic business segment of the group. non-current  pricing power for the food offered by restaurants, but 
—   level 2: fair value is estimated using a valuation  assets that are held for sale either individually or collectively  receives a commission as remuneration from restaurants.
 technique that uses inputs that can be observed  as part of a disposal group, or that belong to a  discon tinued 
either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly   operation, are no longer depreciated/amortized. they are  although users of the dh platforms are generally not a 
(that is, derived from prices). instead accounted for at the lower of the carrying amount  contracting party of dh group entities, they purchase the 
—   level 3: fair value is estimated using a valuation  and the fair value less any remaining costs of disposal. if  goods or services from dh group customers (restaurants). 
 technique that is using inputs that are not observable. this value is less than the carrying amount, an impairment  accordingly dh group deducts vouchers and discounts 
loss is recognized. the gains and losses resulting from the  granted to orderers, equally to a consideration payable to 
where various input factors are relevant for measurement,  measurement of components held for sale, as well as the  the customer, from revenue.
the fair value is categorized at the lowest level input that  gains and losses arising from the disposal of discontinued 
is significant to the entire measurement. valuation tech- operations, are reported separately on the face of the con- goodwill allocation 
niques used to measure fair value maximize the use of  solidated statement of comprehensive income under net  determining an appropriate method of allocating goodwill 
relevant observable inputs and minimize the use of unob- profit or loss for the period from discontinued operations,  to cgus for impairment testing requires assessment of 
servable inputs. net, along with the income from the ordinary operating   specific facts and circumstances that may involve signifi-
activities of these components. the consolidated state- cant judgments.
13.  assets held for sale and liabilities associated with  ment of comprehensive income for the previous year is 
assets held for sale and discontinued operations adjusted accordingly. the relevant assets and liabilities are  determination of significant influence or control
non-current assets and the assets of a disposal group  reported on a separate line in the consolidated statement  for entities in which dh group holds less than 20% of the 
 classified as held for sale, as well as any corresponding  of financial position. the cash flows of discontinued opera- voting rights, other qualitative factors are considered in 
 liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for sale, are  tions attributable to operating, investing and financing  order to assess whether significant influence over an entity 
recognized separately from other assets and other liabili- activities are reported separately in the notes, with prior-  exists.
ties in the consolidated statement of financial position in  year figures adjusted accordingly.
the line items “assets included in a disposal group classi- similarly, for entities in which dh group holds less than 50% 
fied as held for sale” and “liabilities included in a disposal  14. judgment and use of estimates of the voting rights, other qualitative factors are considered 
group classified as held for sale” if they can be disposed  the application of accounting policies and the preparation  in order to assess whether dh group controls the entity.
of in their current condition and if there is sufficient prob- of the consolidated financial statements requires manage-
ability of their disposal actually taking place. ment to take decisions that involve judgment and esti-
mates. this is particularly applicable for the following 
decisions:
102
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
determination of lease term b) assumptions and estimation uncertainty goodwill impairment testing
lease contracts entered into by entities occasionally include  hyperinflation accounting determination of a cgu’s recoverable amount for purpose 
extension options. dh group applies judgment on whether  based on the current consensus in the argentine account- of impairment testing requires assumptions and estimates, 
exertion of extension options is reasonably certain. ing profession, the financial information of the group’s  in particular on the future development of ebitda and 
argentine subsidiaries are restated based on a historic cost  sustainable growth rates. while management believes that 
classification of share-based payments as equity-settled approach using the nationwide consumer price index  the assumptions and estimates used are appropriate, any 
dh group classifies its stock option program that enables  (“cpi”) from january 1, 2017 ongoing and the nationwide  unforeseeable changes to these assumptions could affect 
the group to settle in equity shares or in cash mainly as  wholesale price index (“wpi”) for financial data up to decem- the group’s financial position and financial performance.
equity- settled awards. the group assesses that it intends  ber 31, 2016, except for the two months of  november and 
and has an ability to settle by means of equity instruments  december 2015 for which the city of buenos aires cpi is used.  further information on the assumptions and estimates 
and therefore does not recognize a present obligation to  made is listed in the respective note disclosure. all 
settle in cash (refer to section h.01.). level of price index  assumptions and estimates are based on the conditions 
prevailing and assessments at the reporting date (refer to 
evaluation of the derecognition criteria  change during  change during  section f.01.b).
application of the derecognition criteria of ifrs 9 involves  reporting period  previous period
judgment and estimates especially in determining  whether  national cpi 53.8% 47.6% amortization of intangible assets with finite useful lives
substantially all risk and rewards are transferred. delivery hero has a significant amount of intangible assets 
with finite useful lives. this relates in particular to intan-
assessment of probability of the planned transaction  recognition and measurement of other provisions gible assets from brands, trademarks and customer 
with woowa brothers corp., south korea (“woowa”) recognition and measurement of other provisions are sub-  relationships (refer to section f.01. for carrying amounts). 
the probability of completing the planned transaction  ject to uncertainties in respect of future price increases as  assumptions and estimates are required to determine the 
with woowa as well as the timing of closing are significant  well as in respect of the extent, date and probability of  useful life as basis for the appropriate amortization 
unobservable input parameter for valuation of the deal-  utilization of the respective provision (refer to section f.11.). charge. the useful lives are regularly reviewed by delivery  
contingent foreign currency option that was concluded in  hero and adjusted, if necessary. the determi nation of the 
order to hedge the us dollar-nominated cash consider- scope for recognizing deferred tax assets useful life of acquired brands, trademarks and customer 
ation and the corresponding liability for the option pre- an excess of deferred tax assets is only recognized if it is  relationships is based on the individual  customer churn 
mium (refer to sections d.02. acquisitions and h.02. finan- probable that future tax benefits can be realized based on  rate of the business. 
cial instruments). significant judgment was applied to  tax budgets. the current taxable profit situation in future 
assess the probability and the timing of closing.  reporting years, and thus the actual usability of deferred 
tax assets, can vary from the estimate made at the date of 
recognizing deferred taxes. deferred tax assets on tax loss 
carryforwards or temporary differences are recognized 
based on estimated future taxable income (refer to section 
f.06.). 
103
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
measurement of fair values ifrs 16 at inception or upon reassessment of a contract that con-
a number of the group’s accounting policies require the  the group has initially adopted ifrs 16 effective january 1,  tains a lease component, the group allocates the considera-
measurement of fair values for both financial and non-  2019, using the modified retrospective method. accordingly,  tion in the contract to each lease and non-lease component 
financial assets and liabilities. significant measurement  the group presents the comparative period in line with  on the basis of their relative stand-alone prices.
uncertainties are specifically relevant for the measurement   previous principles. 
of assets and liabilities in business combinations (refer to  the group as a lessee 
section d.02.), share-based payments (refer to section  ifrs 16 introduces a single, on-balance sheet accounting  the group leases predominantly office space, vehicles and 
h.01.) and financial instruments (refer to section h.02.).  model for lessees. consequentially, the group, as a lessee,  office equipment. 
has recognized right-of-use assets representing its entitle-
significant valuation estimates are reported to the group’s  ments to use the underlying assets and the corresponding  as a lessee, the group previously classified leases as oper-
audit committee. lease liabilities representing its obligation to lease pay- ating or finance leases based on its assessment of whether 
ments. lessor accounting remains similar to previous  the lease transferred substantially all the risks and rewards 
further information on the assumptions and estimates  accounting principles.  of ownership. under ifrs 16, the group recognizes right-
made are listed in the individual note disclosures. all  of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases – i.e., 
assumptions and estimates are based on the conditions  definition of a lease  these leases are reflected “on-balance sheet”.
prevailing and assessments at the reporting date.  previously, the group determined at contract inception 
whether an arrangement was or contained a lease under  except for short-term leases of transport vehicles, the 
ifric 4. the group now assesses whether a contract is, or  group has elected to apply the recognition exemptions to 
c.  changes in accounting policies, new  contains, a lease based on the new lease definition. accord- leases of low-value assets and short-term leases with a 
 standards and interpretations that have  ing to ifrs 16, a contract is, or contains, a lease if the con- (remaining) lease term of twelve months or less. the group 
not yet been applied tract conveys a right to control the use of an identified  recognizes the lease payments associated with these leases 
asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.  as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
a) changes in significant accounting policies
ifrs 16 leases has been initially applied from january 1, 2019  on transition to ifrs 16, the group elected to apply the 
with the effects subsequently described. several other new  practical expedient to grandfather the historical assess-
standards and interpretations became effective january 1,  ment of which transactions are leases. contracts that were 
2019 with no material effect on the group’s consolidated  not identified as leases under ias 17 and ifric 4 were not 
financial statements.  reassessed. the definition of a lease under ifrs 16 has been 
applied to contracts entered into or modified on or after 
january 1, 2019.
104
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
for all other leases a lease liability and a right-of-use asset  when measuring lease liabilities for leases that were clas- b)  new standards and interpretations that have  
is recognized upon transition.  sified as operating leases, the group discounted lease  not yet been applied
 payments using its incremental borrowing rate at janu- the following new standards and amendments to stan-
at transition, lease liabilities were measured at the present  ary 1, 2019. the weighted average rate applied is 6.76%. dards are effective for annual periods beginning on or 
value of the remaining lease payments, discounted at the  after january 1, 2020. the group has not adopted any of 
group’s incremental borrowing rate as at january 1, 2019.  eur million   the new or amended standards early in preparing these 
right-of-use assets are measured at an amount equal to    consolidated financial statements. 
the lease liability, adjusted by the amount of any prepaid  lease commitments per consolidated 
financial statements 2018 100.4
or accrued lease payments. applica-
– discounted using the incremental  standard tion date impacts
 borrowing rate at jan. 1, 2019 8.4
the group used further practical expedients when apply- ifrs 17: insurance contracts january 1,  no significant 
+ finance lease liabilities recognized   2021 effect expected
ing ifrs 16 to leases previously classified as operating 
as at dec. 31, 2018 2.4
 leases under ias 17 as follows: amendments to references  january 1,  no significant 
– recognition exemption for leases of  to the conceptual frame- 2020 effect expected
 low-value assets 0.2 work in ifrs standards
—   applied a single discount rate for those leases with 
– recognition exemption for leases with  amendment to ifrs 3   january 1,  no significant 
reasonably similar characteristics; 
less than 12 months of lease term at  business combinations 2020 1 effect expected
—   used hindsight when determining the lease term if  transition 5.5
amendment to ias 1 and ias 8:  january 1,  no significant 
the contract contains options to extend or terminate  + reassessment of extension or   definition of material 2020 effect expected
the lease. termination options  1.2
interest rate benchmark  january 1,  no significant 
+ variable lease payments based on an index 0.4 reform (amendments to  20201 effect expected
impacts at transition date january 1, 2019 ifrs 9, ias 39 and ifrs 7)
– contracts committed as of dec. 31, 2018 
on transition to ifrs 16, the group recognized € 79.4 million  with start date after jan. 1, 2019 9.9 1 not yet endorsed by the european union. 
in right-of-use assets and additional € 78.0 million in lease 
lease liabilities recognized  
liabilities.  at jan. 1, 2019 80.4
105
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
d. scope of consolidation the number of equity-accounted companies changed as  02. acquisitions
set forth in the following table: during the year 2019, the group acquired the food delivery 
01. changes in the group business of zomato media private ltd. (“zomato”) in the 
in the reporting period, the number of consolidated sub- number of equity-accounted companies united arab emirates (“zomato uae”), restaurangonline 
sidiaries changed as follows: sverige ab, sweden, and its subsidiary hungry delivery 
2019 2018 ab – together referred to as “hungrig group”, aa foody 
number of consolidated subsidiaries    cyprus ltd., cyprus (“foody”), and movil media srl, 
january 1 5 2 dominican republic (“delivery rd”), which are presented 
2019 2018 additions 2 3 in further detail below:
  divestiture/consolidation 2 0
january 1 125 137 a) zomato
december 31 5 5
additions 25 15 as at february 28, 2019, the group acquired zomato’s food 
disposals (including   delivery business in the united arab emirates via an asset 
mergers and liquidations) 17 27 purchase agreement. zomato is a restaurant review, 
december 31 133 125 in 2019 delivery hero acquired 20.2% of the shares in  restaurant discovery, food delivery and dining out trans-
bio-lutions international ag (“biolutions”) and 21.8% in  actions platform. zomato uae offers both vendor and own 
  nosh services, cayman islands, (“nosh”), both of which  delivery services to end customers through its platform.
the additions to the consolidation scope in 2019 relate to  are accounted for at-equity. biolutions, based in hamburg, 
the acquisition of eight entities across the middle east,  germany, produces packaging materials from agricultural  through this acquisition, delivery hero intends to further 
europe and americas segments (refer to section d.02.) and  wastes at competitive prices and a minimum carbon foot- solidify its market position in uae. the total consideration 
foundations.  print. nosh is a b2b and b2c virtual cafeteria and food  for the acquisition is € 187.4 million. it includes a deferred 
retail company operating in hong kong. consideration of € 30.8 million, payable one year after the 
disposals in 2019 comprise the sale of the german oper- acquisition date, and a contingent consideration of maxi-
ations as well as liquidations and mergers following group-  delivery hero divested its stake in rp polska in february  mum € 38.7 million, which depends on the future perfor-
internal restructuring measures. 2019. after a reorganization of the sweetheart kitchen  mance of the business. the fair value of the deferred and 
operations in the context of the disposal of the group’s  contingent consideration is € 67.2 million. 
 german business accompanied by an additional funding 
by delivery hero, the sweetheart kitchen operations  fair values  
at date of 
gmbh was no longer accounted for at equity but included 
eur million acquisition 
as a subsidiary in the scope of consolidation effective 
 
march 2019. the assessment takes into account all facts 
intangible assets 3.8
and circumstances, including the investee’s dependence 
net assets 3.8
on funding from delivery hero for their operations. 
consideration transferred 187.4
goodwill 183.6
106
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
due to the unique characteristics of this acquisition struc- as at july 1, 2019, delivery hero group acquired 100% of  none of the intangible assets have an indefinite useful life. 
ture, the initial accounting for this business combination  delivery rd, a leading food delivery platform based in the 
is incomplete as at december 31, 2019, in respect to the  dominican republic. the entity operates under a mixed  goodwill, which consists primarily of not separable 
measurement of intangible assets. therefore, the  reported  model offering majorly own delivery services and some   components such as positive business prospects and 
amounts are provisional pursuant to ifrs 3.45. vendor delivery services to end customers. employee know-how, is not deductible for tax purposes.
identified customer relationships have been measured pur- the fair value of total consideration for the other acquisi- combined trade receivables from third parties with a gross 
suant to ifrs 3. none of the intangible assets have an indef- tions in 2019 is € 22.0 million, which includes contingent  value of € 0.1 million were acquired and are assessed as 
inite useful life. goodwill, which consists primarily of not   considerations of € 8.0 million. the contingent consideration  being fully recoverable. 
separable components such as positive business  prospects  depends on the future performance of the businesses; the 
and employee know-how, is not deductible for tax  maximum amount of the contingency is € 8.0 million. in  since their first inclusion, the acquired entities have con-
purposes. connection with these business combinations, no  significant  tributed € 8.8 million towards group’s revenues and a net 
transaction costs incurred. the other acquisitions represent  loss of € 3.7 million.
since its first inclusion zomato uae has contributed  strategic investments into the respective markets.
€ 27.1 million towards group’s revenues and a net profit of  if the acquisitions had been consolidated as of january 1, 
€ 4.1 million. the total consideration for the other acquisitions is allo- 2019 the entities would have contributed € 14.9 million to 
cated between the recognized assets and assumed liabili- revenue and a net loss of € 6.7 million.
if zomato uae had been consolidated as of january 1, 2019,  ties as follows based on provisional accounting in accor-
it would have contributed € 32.5 million to revenue and a  dance with ifrs 3.45: planned transaction with woowa brothers corp., 
net income of € 4.9 million to net profit. south korea (“woowa”)
fair values   on december 13, 2019, delivery hero entered into an agree-
at date of 
b) others ment with woowa to acquire approx. 88% of the shares in 
eur million acquisition 
as at april 30, 2019, delivery hero group acquired hungrig  woowa for a consideration of approx. usd 4.0 billion. the 
 
group, a food delivery platform based in sweden. the  consideration will consist of approx. usd 1.9 billion in cash 
intangible assets 5.2
 entity operates a mixed food delivery model – offering  and approx. usd 2.1 billion in new shares of delivery hero. 
property, plant and equipment 0.5
vendor as well as own delivery services to end customers. 
trade and other receivables 0.1
the acquisition of 100% of the shares in hungrig group  for purposes of the transaction, the management board 
 represents a strategic investment in the swedish market.  other assets 0.2 of delivery hero, with the approval of the supervisory 
the shares acquired are representative of the voting rights. cash and cash equivalents 1.5 board of delivery hero, has resolved on a capital increase 
provisions and liabilities –0.7 by way of contribution-in-kind from authorized capital 
as at july 1, 2019, delivery hero group acquired 100% of  under the exclusion of subscription rights to issue new 
trade payables –1.4
foody, a leading food delivery platform based in cyprus.  shares in delivery hero at the minimum issue price of 
deferred tax liabilities –0.9
the entity operates food delivery marketplace offering  € 1.00 to fully cover any shares to be potentially required 
net assets 4.5
vendor delivery services to end customers. to be issued in connection with the transaction. 
consideration transferred 22.0
goodwill 17.5
107
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
to finance the transaction, on january 16, 2020 delivery hero  the provisional accounting for the acquisition in accor- the following tables provide summarized financial infor-
placed a senior, unsecured convertible bond in a principal  dance with ifrs 3.45 as of that date remained unchanged  mation before intragroup elimination for hunger station:
amount of € 1.75 billion and has increased its share capital  as presented below:
through the exercise of authorized capital leading to gross  summarized statement of financial position of  
proceeds from the capital increase of approx. € 571 million  fair values   hungerstation 
(refer to section i. (subsequent events) for further informa- at date of    
eur million acquisition  eur million dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018
tion). in order to hedge against the exchange rate risk asso-
ciated with the cash consideration of the planned transac-    
intangible assets 10.5 current
tion with woowa, delivery hero entered into an eur/usd 
property, plant and equipment 0.1
foreign currency option as of december 13, 2019, that is  assets 45.3 10.8
trade and other receivables 0.5
dependent on closing of the transaction (deal-contingent  liabilities 55.3 25.1
option) with a nominal value of € 2.5 billion (see note h.02.).  cash and cash equivalents 0.5 current net debt –10.0 –14.3
provisions and liabilities –0.5
 
the closing of the transaction is subject to certain condi- trade payables –1.2 non-current
tions such as financing of the cash consideration and 
deferred tax liabilities –0.8 assets 127.7 122.6
 regulatory approvals, including merger control clearance 
net assets 9.1 liabilities 3.6 0.8
by the korean fair trade commission, and expected to 
consideration transferred 26.8 non-current net assets 124.1 121.8
occur in the second half of 2020.
goodwill 17.7 total net assets 114.1 107.5
c) acquisitions in the previous year
during the year 2018, the group acquired deliveras s.a.,  summarized statement of comprehensive income  
greece (“deliveras”), euró magyarország kft., hungary  03. d  isclosures on participations pursuant to ifrs 12 of hungerstation 
(“pizza.hu”), cloud treats romania s.a (“hipmenu” and   
eur million 2019 2018
“hipdelivery”) and motwer sa (“alan”). during the year,  a) subsidiaries
the group also had some smaller asset deals in americas  on december 31, 2019 dh group had 133 fully consolidated   
revenue 242.7 81.4
where it acquired netcomidas.com in bolivia and megabite  subsidiaries.
in ecuador, both online food delivery platforms.  earnings before income taxes 5.7 –8.3
refer to section h.10. for a complete list of the group’s  income taxes 1.2 –2.0
subsidiaries. earnings after taxes 6.9 –10.3
other comprehensive income 1.7 4.7
b) nci
total comprehensive income 8.6 –5.6
as of december 31, 2019, the group has material nci (37%) 
comprehensive income/loss 
in its hungerstation subsidiary (kingdom of saudi arabia 
 attributable to non- 
(ksa)). in the context of the disposal of the german  business  controlling interests 3.2 –2.1
activities the group restructured its joint venture with 
sweetheart kitchen in march 2019. following an additional 
investment in sweetheart kitchen, dubai, in 2019, the entity 
is consolidated with a remaining material nci (40%) as at 
december 31, 2019. 
108
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
summarized statement of cash flows   summarized statement of financial position of sweetheart  summarized statement of cash flows of sweetheart kitchen, 
of hungerstation  kitchen, dubai dubai
     
eur million 2019 2018 eur million 2019 eur million 2019
 
net cash flows from   current net cash flows from  
operating activities 36.4 1.0 operating activities –11.9
assets 12.9
net cash flows from  net cash flows from  
liabilities 9.5
 investing activities –1.2 –1.4 investing activities –3.3
current net assets 3.4
net cash flows from  net cash flows from  
 financing activities 1.5 –0.1 non-current financing activities 25.9
net change in cash and   assets 7.7 net change in cash and  
cash equivalents 36.7 –0.5 cash equivalents 10.7
liabilities 15.8
cash and cash equivalents at  cash and cash equivalents  
non-current net debt –8.1
the beginning of the period 2.8 3.3 at the beginning of the period –
total net debt –4.7
effect of exchange rate  effect of exchange rate  
movements in cash and   movements in cash and  
cash equivalents –0.2 0.0 cash equivalents –0.1
cash and cash equivalents  summarized statement of comprehensive income of sweetheart  cash and cash equivalents  
at the end of the period 39.3 2.8 kitchen, dubai  at the end of the period 10.6
 
eur million 2019
accumulated non-controlling interests of hungerstation    accumulated non-controlling interests of sweetheart kitch-
revenue 0.4
amounts to € 2.1 million as of december 31, 2019 (decem- en, dubai amounts to € –3.5 million as of december 31, 
ber 31, 2018: € –1.1 million). earnings before income taxes 4.9 2019 (december 31, 2018: n/a).
income taxes –
the following tables provide summarized financial infor- earnings after taxes 4.9 c) associated companies
mation before intragroup elimination for sweetheart  as of december 31, 2019, dh group has interest in five 
other comprehensive income –
kitchen: associates, two of which are material (2018: two material) 
total comprehensive income 4.9
to the group. both associates are accounted for under the 
comprehensive loss attributable 
equity method and are presented below:
to non-controlling interests –3.5
109
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
1. rappi summarized statement of financial position of   2. glovo
during the year 2018, dh group invested € 138.1 million  rappi: in 2018, dh group invested € 51.2 million for a minority 
($ 163.9 million) for a minority stake of 19.5% in rappi, a    stake of 15.0% in glovo, a limited liability company regis-
eur million 2019 2018
delaware, usa-based corporation. rappi is the parent com- tered in barcelona, spain. glovo is a leading on-demand 
pany of a leading on-demand and multi-vertical delivery    and multi-vertical delivery service platform providing 
percentage ownership  
service platform in latin america providing restaurant,  restaurant, grocery and other delivery services, operating 
interest 14.0% 19.5%
grocery and other delivery services. as result of a financing  majorly across europe and latin  america. the overall hold-
non-current assets 397.5 376.2
round in september 2019 delivery hero’s share in rappi  add table  ing was increased during 2018 to 16% within a transaction 
current assets 518.7 220.5
was diluted to 14.0%. to sell the operations in italy to glovo in lieu of shares.
non-current liabilities –7.5 –7.9
the group has determined that it exercises significant influ- current liabilities –95.9 –25.8 during 2019, delivery hero participated in two further 
ence due to meaningful representation on the board of  net assets (100%) 812.8 563.0 funding rounds of the glovo group and invested in total 
directors of the investee and accordingly applies the equity  € 19.1 million resulting in a total stake of 12.7% after dilution 
group’s share of  
method of accounting. net assets (14.0%) 113.5 109.8 effects as of december 31, 2019. the group has determined 
that it exercises, as the investees’ largest share holders, sig-
carrying amount of  
below is the summarized financial information for rappi  interest in associate 113.5 109.8 nificant influence due to meaningful representation on the 
based on financial information in accordance with  board of directors of the investee and, accordingly, applies 
revenue (100%) 162.4 46.6
us gaap, adjusted for fair value adjustments at acquisition  the equity method of accounting. 
profit from continuing  
and differences in accounting policies. operations (100%) –419.0 –138.0
below is the summarized financial information for glovo 
other comprehensive income 
(100%) –1.0 –4.1 based on its consolidated financial statements prepared 
in accordance with ifrs, adjusted for fair value a djustments 
total comprehensive income 
(100%) –420.0 –142.1 at acquisition and differences in accounting policies.
total comprehensive income 
(14.0%) –73.1 –28.3
group’s share of total com-
prehensive income (14.0%)1 –73.1 –28.3
1  during the year 2019, dh groups share in rappi fluctuated due to 
 additional funding rounds. the reported share of 14.0% is as at year  
end. the weighted average share for the entire year was 17.4% (previous 
year: reported share of 19.5% at year end and weighted average share 
for the entire year was 19.9%).
110
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
summarized statement of financial position of glovo: individually immaterial associates  the total consideration amounted to (i) 5.7 million ordinary 
  the table below includes in aggregate financial  information  shares in takeaway.com, (ii) 3.8 million warrants convert-
eur million 2019 2018
of individually immaterial associates and joint ventures: ible into ordinary shares of takeaway.com at zero cost and 
  (iii) € 508 million of cash, including the cash position of 
percentage ownership  
the transferred entities. measured at market values at the 
interest 12.7% 16.0%
eur million 2019 2018 closing date the consideration amounted to € 1.2 billion. 
non-current assets 296.5 254.9
 
current assets 115.0 81.5 carrying amount of interests 6.3  6.0 the warrants were exercised and converted into ordinary 
non-current liabilities –178.5 –13.3 share of profit/loss   shares of takeaway.com in may 2019. 
attributable to dh group 0.3  0.1 
current liabilities –126.1 –39.5
net assets (100%) 106.9 283.6 other comprehensive income – – the disposal gain from this divestment contributed 
€ 930.1 million to the net income from discontinued oper-
group’s share of  
net assets (12.7%)1 15.0 45.4 ation of € 920.2 million in 2019.
during the year 2018, sweetheart kitchen gmbh and 
carrying amount of  
interest in associate 15.0 45.4 rp polska were presented as individually immaterial joint  in 2018 the sale of the hungryhouse group was closed. the 
 ventures. the carrying amount of interests in these was  gain from the divestment of € 261.3 million was included 
revenue (100%) 216.6 75.2
€ 1.1 million as at december 31, 2018 and the share of  losses  in the net income from discontinued operations in 2018.
profit from continuing  
operations (100%) –188.9 –90.4 attributable to the group in 2018 was € 2.9 million. during 
2019, the joint venture share in rp polska was disposed of.  subsequently presented is the summarized information of 
other comprehensive income 
(100%) – 1.8 as delivery hero gained control over sweetheart kitchen  the net assets, financial position and result from discon-
gmbh it is fully consolidated as a subsidiary.  tinued operations.
total comprehensive income 
(100%) –188.9 –88.6
d) discontinued operations
adjusted total comprehensive 
income for investment period  on april 1, 2019, delivery hero closed the sale of its ger-
(100%) –188.9 –61.7 man food delivery operations. the businesses comprising 
group’s share of total com- lieferheld, pizza.de and foodora were sold to takeaway.
prehensive income (12.7%)1 –26.5 –9.8 com n.v. ("takeaway.com") in exchange for cash and an 
1  during the year 2019, dh groups share in glovo slightly fluctuated  equity stake in takeaway.com.
throughout the year due to multiple funding rounds. the reported 
share of 12.7% is as at year end. the weighted average share for the 
entire year was 14.0%.
111
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
profit or loss from the discontinued operation  the oci (net) did not include foreign currency translation  e. operating segments
  gains or losses from discontinued operations.
eur million 2019 2018
01. segmentation principles 
  as of december 31, 2019 no assets and liabilities are  the management board of the company represents the 
revenue 26.1 106.2
 included in a disposal group. group’s chief operating decision maker (codm). in line 
consolidation of   with the management approach, the operating segments 
intragroup revenue – –6.0
assets and liabilities of the disposal group as of december 31, 2018   are identified on the basis of the internal reporting struc-
external revenue 26.1 100.2
(german operations) ture. internal reporting is the basis for the allocation of 
expenses –34.5 –172.4   resources and the evaluation of the performance of the 
income, including disposal  eur million dec. 31, 2018 operating segments by the management board.
gain 931.9 261.7  
consolidation of   intangible assets 269.5 the group’s business activity is segmented according to 
intragroup expenses – 32.4 property, plant and equipment 0.2 geographical attributes. there is separate internal report-
external expenses/income 897.4 121.7 deferred tax assets 6.5 ing to the management board for the europe, mena, asia 
profit or loss from  inventories 0.7 and americas regions. turkey is assigned to the mena 
 discontinued operations 923.5 221.9  segment and canada to the americas segment. the group 
trade and other receivables 13.7
income taxes –3,4 12.9 offers food ordering and delivery services with a different 
other current assets 0.4
profit or loss from  configuration of platform-based marketplace offers and 
 discontinued operations  cash and cash equivalents 75.8 delivery services depending on the respective markets. 
after taxes 920.2 234.8 assets held for sale 366.8 the regional range of services is determined partly by 
other liabilities 0.0 demand, infrastructure, demographic circumstances and 
the competitive situation. 
deferred tax liabilities 21.3
cash flows from the discontinued operation 
other current provisions 5.8
   the profitability of the operating segments is measured 
eur million 2019 2018 trade and other payables 43.6
on the basis of adjusted ebitda. adjusted ebitda is the 
  other non-financial liabilities 4.1 earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, 
net cash flow from  
income tax liabilities 0.0 financial result, depreciation and amortization and 
operating activities –11.8 –46.1
liabilities held for sale 74.8 non-operating earnings effects. non-operating earnings 
net cash flow from  
effects comprise, in particular (i) expenses for share-based 
investing activities 486.4 –1.9
payment, (ii) expenses for services in connection with 
net cash flow from  
 corporate transactions and financing rounds, (iii) expenses 
financing activities 1.1 100.1
for reorganization measures, (iv) expenses for the imple-
net cash flow for the year 475.7 52.1
mentation of information technology and (v) other non- 
operating expenses and income, especially the result from 
disposal of tangible and intangible assets, the result from 
sale and abandonment of subsidiaries, allowances for other 
receivables and non-income taxes.
112
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
the german businesses disposed of in april 2019 and classi- revenues are split across the segments as follows: b) adjusted ebitda
fied as discontinued operations throughout 2019 and 2018  change
(refer to section d.03.d) is excluded from the europe seg- revenue   adjusted  eur 
ment performance in 2019. the 2018 segment information  change eur million 2019 2018  million %
 
is correspondingly adjusted.   adjusted  eur   
eur million 2019 2018  million % mena 43.3 18.1 25.2 > 100
from the measurement of the 2018 segment performance    asia –312.2 –51.9 –260.3 > 100
excluded are operations of foodora australia, france, italy  mena 716.6 316.4 400.2 > 100 europe –19.0 –15.4 –3.6 23.4
and the netherlands abandoned or sold during that  asia 455.5 192.5 263.0 > 100
americas –143.0 –50.9 –92.1 > 100
period. europe 173.2 115.9 57.3 49.4
adjusted ebitda 
americas 110.4 62.1 48.3 77.8 of the segments –430.9 –100.2 –330.7 > 100
02.  segment information and reconciliation  
total segment  consolidation 
of segment information  revenue 1,455.7 686.9 768.8 > 100 adjustments –6.3 –12.3 6.0 –48.7
discounts –225.3 –41.0 –184.3 > 100 items excluded 
a) revenue from segment 
other reconcil-
sales between segments are conducted at market prices.  performance –22.0 –20.0 –2.0 10.0
ing items 7.21 19.22 –12.0 –62.5
the revenue with external customers reported to the  management 
group revenue 1,237.6 665.1 572.5 86.1
codm generally equals the measurement of the revenue  adjustments –49.0 –44.1 –4.9 11.1
recognized in the statement of comprehensive income  1  for segment reporting purposes revenues from other on-demand items  expenses for 
with exception to the following:  wvahlueree ( gdreolisvse prryo hfeitr op raecstesn atas tpiroinn)c.ipal are presented net of merchandise  share-based 
—   discounts and vouchers to users of the platforms  2  reconciliation effects in 2018 include gross revenue (before voucher  compensation –44.8 –17.2 –27.6 > 100
deduction) of operations abandoned or sold during the reporting period 
that are treated as marketing expenses for reporting  that are not in the scope of ifrs 5. in 2018 these divestments included  other reconcil-
australia, france, italy and the netherlands. ing items 2.3 –0.2 2.5 > 100
to the codm are deducted from revenue in accor-
amortization 
dance with ifrs 15 in the statement of comprehen-
and depreciation –97.2 –47.7 –49.5 > 100
sive income
financial result –15.5 –17.1 1.6 –9.3
—   revenues from the sale of other on-demand items 
where delivery hero acts as principal (primarily dark  earnings before 
income taxes –663.4 –258.8 –404.6 > 100
store sales) are presented net of merchandise value 
for segment reporting purposes whereas on gross 
basis in consolidated group revenue in accordance  consolidation adjustments substantially relate to the elim-
with ifrs 15 ination of transactions with discontinued operations.
113
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
items excluded from segment performance of € 22.0 million  a) revenue f.  disclosures on the consolidated  statement 
in 2019 relate to expenses for operations, which were  of financial position
divested in 2018 (previous year € 20.0 million). management   
eur million 2019 2018
adjustments include (i) expenses for services related to cor- 01. intangible assets
porate transactions of € 34.8 million (previous year:   
saudi arabia 260.4 92.3
€ 40.1 million), thereof € 13.3 million expenses recognized  a) reconciliation of carrying amount
for earn-out liabilities in connection with acquisitions of  kuwait 161.9 99.5 intangible assets increased by € 168.7 million in the current 
current and previous years (previous year: € 30.1 million)  korea 94.8 94.4 year. this change is primarily due to goodwill additions of 
and expenses for reorganization measures of € 14.3 million  other countries 720.5 378.9 € 201.1 million mainly from the acquisition of zomato uae 
(previous year: € 3.9 million), which include in 2019 in  (refer to section d.02.). contrary the carrying value of 
subtotal continuing  
particular expenses for legal consulting in connection  operations  1,237.6 665.1 brands of € 26.4 million decreased due to amortization 
with the reorganization of the management structure of  germany  26.1 96.8 (€ 15.3 million), fx effects of € 12.4 million and other minor 
hungerstation. effects of € –1.3 million.
united kingdom – 3.4
total 1,263.7 765.3
other reconciling items include non-operating income and  goodwill is not subject to amortization.
expenses. in 2019, this item included in particular gains 
from the settlement of warranty claims related to the  the useful life of both, brands and customer and supplier 
acquisition of the foodpanda group of € 9.6 million, losses  b) non-current assets relationships, identified as part of the acquisitions, is 
on the disposal or discontinuation of business activities of  between three and four years. the remaining useful life of 
€ 2.0 million as well as non-income-tax expenses of    the other brands may extend from one to twenty years; 
eur million dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018
€ 4.3 million (previous year: € 5.5 million).  that of the other customer and supplier relationships 
   ranges between one and nine years.
turkey 248.8 256.1
03. information about geographical areas
the tables below show the revenue and non-current assets  united arab emirates 221.5 23.1 amortization of intangible assets is recognized in admin-
for material countries in the group1. the geographical allo- kuwait 212.8 195.8 istrative expenses, except for amortization of brands, 
cation of the revenue and assets is based on the domicile  germany 140.3 188.8 which is reflected in marketing expenses.
of each subsidiary.
saudi arabia 133.4 127.7
other countries 370.7 287.8
total 1,327.5 1,079.4
non-current assets do not include financial instruments, 
deferred tax assets or assets for employee benefits.
1  a country is considered material if representative of > 10% of respective 
 performance metric, at minimum three largest countries, respectively.
114
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
movements in intangible assets:
customer/ 
internally  supplier base 
 generated  and other 
licenses and   intangible   intangible 
eur million goodwill  similar rights trademarks software assets assets total
 
cost
as of jan. 1, 2019 593.5 11.6 231.3 33.1 11.4 124.2 1,005.1
additions through business combinations 201.1 – 1.3 – – 7.7 210.2
disposals due to deconsolidation –9.6 0.0 – –0.7 –0.2 0.0 –10.6
additions 0.0 4.8 – 2.6 12.9 5.6 25.9
reclassifications – –7.1 –0.1 6.8 0.8 –0.4 0.0
disposals 0.0 0.0 0.0 –0.8 –0.9 –0.1 –1.9
translation differences –3.4 –0.6 –15.1 –0.6 –0.6 –4.6 –24.8
as of dec. 31, 2019 781.6 8.7 217.3 40.4 23.3 132.2 1,203.2
 
accumulated amortization and impairment losses              
as of jan. 1, 2019 –23.1 –5.0 –43.6 –11.3 –6.5 –37.6 –127.1
additions through business combinations 0.0 – – – – – 0.0
disposals due to deconsolidation 9.6 0.0 – 0.7 0.0 0.0 10.4
amortization 0.0 –1.0 –15.3 –9.0 –4.1 –12.1 –41.5
impairment losses –1.9 –0.1 – 0.0 – –2.1 –4.1
reclassifications – 1.9 – –2.1 –0.3 0.6 0.0
disposals – 0.0 – 0.6 0.3 – 0.9
translation differences 0.3 0.1 2.7 0.1 0.2 0.8 4.2
as of dec. 31, 2019 –15.1 –4.1 –56.0 –21.1 –10.5 –50.4 –156.6
carrying amount as of dec. 31, 2019 766.6 4.6 161.3 19.4 12.9 81.9 1,046.6
carrying amount as of jan. 1, 2019 570.4 6.7 187.7 21.8 4.8 86.5 878.0
115
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
customer/ 
internally  supplier base  
 generated  and other 
licenses and   intangible   intangible 
eur million goodwill  similar rights trademarks software assets assets total
 
cost
as of jan. 1, 2018 733.0 5.1 426.5 18.4 8.5 168.9 1,360.3
additions through business combinations 17.7 0.0 0.6 6.9 0.0 3.0 28.2
disposals due to deconsolidation –6.2 0.0 –2.4 –0.9 –0.4 –0.2 –10.0
additions 2.9 0.5 0.7 9.1 5.1 5.7 24.0
reclassifications –128.9 6.7 –137.2 0.3 –0.7 –53.3 –313.1
disposals –0.2 –0.4 –0.2 –0.1 –0.1 –0.1 –1.1
translation differences –24.8 –0.2 –56.8 –0.6 –0.9 0.1 –83.2
as of dec. 31, 2018 593.5 11.6 231.3 33.1 11.4 124.2 1,005.1
 
accumulated amortization and impairment losses              
as of jan. 1, 2018 –19.5 –3.6 –58.8 –9.0 –3.8 –42.9 –137.7
disposals due to deconsolidation 0.5 0.0 2.2 0.9 0.0 0.1 3.6
amortization 0.0 –0.2 –14.5 –3.3 –3.1 –12.6 –33.6
impairment losses –4.3 – –0.2 –0.2 0.0 0.0 –4.7
reclassifications – –1.5 20.7 0.0 0.1 16.5 35.8
disposals 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.0 – 0.0 0.7
translation differences 0.0 –0.1 6.9 0.4 0.3 1.2 8.7
as of dec. 31, 2018 –23.1 –5.0 –43.6 –11.3 –6.5 –37.6 –127.1
carrying amount as of dec. 31, 2018 570.4 6.7 187.7 21.8 4.9 86.5 878.0
carrying amount as of jan. 1, 2018 713.5 1.4 367.7 9.4 4.7 126.0 1,222.7
116
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
b) breakdown of goodwill goodwill of the talabat group and nordics group has  the fair value less costs of disposal of the cgus (categorized 
at december 31, 2019 and 2018, the goodwill, net of impair- increased as of december 31, 2019 compared to the previ- as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy) was calculated by apply-
ment losses is allocated as follows: ous year due to the acquisition of zomato uae and the  ing the discounted cash flow method. the basis for deter-
hungrig group, respectively. mining the expected future cash flow is a detailed planning 
  period of five years for each cgu. for perpetuity, the expect-
eur million 2019 2018
goodwill of the cgu yemek sepeti group declined as of  ed future cash flows (before interest and taxes) of each cgus 
  december 31, 2019 compared with the previous year as a  were determined under consideration of cgu-specific rev-
talabat group 250.7 59.0
result of foreign currency translation movements. enue growth and ebitda growth assumptions. 
hungerstation group 115.1 112.5
yemek sepeti group 92.1 101.5 in 2019, goodwill impairment losses of € 2.0 million relate 
nordics group 61.1 44.9 to the cutback of business activities in selected markets 
(2018: € 4.3 million). the impairment losses were recorded 
subtotal 519.0 317.9
within other operating expenses. in course of the 2019 
goodwill of other cgus 247.6 252.5
annual impairment test, the recoverable amount of all 
total 766.6 570.4
cgus exceeded their carrying amount. 
 
117
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
the following table shows the key planning assumptions in 2019: the planning process for each cgu is based on a struc-
tured bottom-up approach that is carried out once a year. 
cgu 2019 the overall process is directed by central management via 
hunger- top-down target-setting in the form of country-/company- 
yemek   station  talabat   nordics  other  
specific kpis. the respective local management then pre-
% sepeti group  group group group goodwill
pares the business plan and adjusts it in an iterative pro-
 
cess together with central management.
revenue growth p.a. in  planning period (cagr) 26.6  9.5  31.2  17.2  32.2 
average ebitda margin in  planning period 33.0  15.1  17.2  7.1  1.8 
local management teams use cohort models for revenue 
terminal value revenue growth 12.1  –0.2  0.7  0.0  1.0 
planning. the cohort models analyze the past order behav-
ebitda margin after end of planning period 41.4  15.0  25.0  25.0  23.6  ior of (local) end customers and apply statistical methods 
average discount rate in  planning period/wacc 23.7  8.3  10.2  7.9  10.8  to forecast the future behavior of existing end customers. 
age of company (years) 18 5 8 9 10 future revenue from new end customers is derived from 
the planned marketing expenses and the development of 
estimated acquisition costs per new end customer. the 
main assumptions for the cohort models include the 
the following table shows the key planning assumptions in 2018:  customer retention/reorder rate, customer activity rate, 
average order size and commission rates.
cgu 2018
hunger-
yemek   station  talabat   nordics  other  
% sepeti group  group group group goodwill
 
revenue growth p.a. in  planning period (cagr) 18.5 15.1 18.4 16.6 28.2
average ebitda margin in  planning period 45.5 15.7 18.7 11.3 0.5
terminal value revenue growth 13.3 1.3 1.9 0.9 2.0
ebitda margin after end of planning period 50.0 20.0 35.0 30.0 27.5
average discount rate in  planning period/wacc 22.3 8.4 9.3 7.5 10.5
age of company (years) 17 4 7 8 9
118
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
the equity component of 2019 wacc is based on a uni- 02. property, plant and equipment
form risk-free base rate of 0.10% for the euro area (previ- movements in property, plant and equipment:
ous year: 1.25%) and a cgu-specific risk premium between 
8.1% and 18.5% (previous year: 7.7% to 16.9%). the risk  advance 
buildings and   payments for 
premium mainly contains adjustment components for 
leasehold  operating  property, 
inflation and country risk as well as market risk and  improve- and office  plant and 
cgu-specific premiums. additionally, cgu-specific risk  eur million ments equipment equipment total
premiums are applied to the free cash flows, which   
depend on the age of the cgu and decline towards matu- cost
rity. further, an entity-specific risk factor (beta factor) of  as of jan. 1, 2019 12.5 44.1 1.1 57.7
1.00 (previous year: 0.95) is used across all cgus. tax rates 
additions through business combinations 0.6 1.0 – 1.6
of between 0% and 35% are applied dependent on the 
disposals due to deconsolidation –2.4 –0.9 0.0 –3.3
cgu/country. in line with the first time application of 
additions 129.1 79.0 7.2 215.3
ifrs 16 a market-based debt ratio and interest rate is 
included in the wacc. reclassifications 2.0 0.7 –2.7 0.0
disposals –0.7 –5.8 0.0 –6.5
as part of the annual impairment testing in 2019, a sensi- translation differences –3.5 –0.9 –0.2 –4.6
tivity analysis was conducted. in each scenario, an increase 
as of dec. 31, 2019 137.6 117.1 5.4 260.1
of the base rate by 100 basis points (bps) and an absolute 
 
reduction of the planned ebitda margin by five percent- accumulated depreciation
age points were assumed. none of these scenarios trig-
as of jan. 1, 2019 –1.6 –17.3 – –18.9
gered impairment in any cgu.
additions through business combinations 0.0 –0.2 – –0.2
disposals due to deconsolidation 0.1 0.4 – 0.4
depreciation –22.9 –29.4 – –52.4
impairment losses –0.1 –0.1 – –0.2
reclassifications 0.0 –0.2 – –0.2
disposals 0.7 3.4 – 4.1
translation differences 0.3 0.3 – 0.6
as of dec. 31, 2019 –23.6 –43.2 – –66.8
carrying amount as of dec. 31, 2019 114.0 74.0 5.4 193.3
carrying amount as of jan. 1, 2019 10.8 26.8 1.1 38.8
119
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
advance  the significant increase of property, plant and equipment 
 payments for  is mainly attributable to the first time application of 
leasehold  operating  property, 
ifrs 16 effective january 1, 2019 (refer to note c.a) changes 
improve- and office  plant and 
eur million ments equipment equipment total in significant accounting policies and note h.09. lease 
relations). buildings classified as right-of-use assets led to 
 
cost an increase of € 116.3 million of buildings and leasehold 
improvements as of december 31, 2019 compared to the 
as of jan. 1, 2018 9.3 28.0 0.2 37.5
prior year. further, newly added right-of-use assets con-
additions through business combinations 0.0 0.1 – 0.1
tributed € 27.3 million to operating and office equipment 
disposals due to deconsolidation 0.0 –1.7 – –1.7
as of december 31, 2019.
additions 4.7 23.7 1.9 30.3
reclassifications –0.4 –2.6 –1.0 –4.0 operating and office equipment further increased primar-
disposals –0.1 –2.2 0.0 –2.3 ily as a result of acquisitions and increased business activ-
ities, including the rollout of new verticals. in this context 
translation differences –1.1 –1.2 0.0 –2.3
investments in the equipment of dark stores and virtual 
as of dec. 31, 2018 12.5 44.1 1.1 57.7
kitchens were made. 
 
accumulated depreciation
03. other financial assets
as of jan. 1, 2018 –1.7 –12.5 – –14.2
other financial assets are composed as follows:
additions through business combinations – 0.0 – 0.0  
disposals due to deconsolidation 0.0 1.3 – 1.3 eur million dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018
depreciation –1.1 –10.2 – –11.3  
investments 379.1 43.4
impairment losses 0.0 –0.3 – –0.3
derivative financial 
reclassifications 1.0 2.7 – 3.7  instruments 52.1 –
disposals 0.1 1.4 – 1.5 loans granted 0.6 2.9
translation differences 0.0 0.3 – 0.4 miscellaneous 5.0 3.5
as of dec. 31, 2018 –1.6 –17.3 – –18.9 total 437.0 49.8
carrying amount as of dec. 31, 2018 10.8 26.8 1.1 38.8 thereof non-current  395.2  49.8
carrying amount as of jan. 1, 2018 7.6 15.5 0.2 23.4 thereof current 41.8 –
120
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
as of december 31, 2019, investments comprise 3.3 million  2022. as of december 31, 2019, net financial assets of  05. other assets
shares in takeaway.com that the group received as part of  € 10.3 million are recognized for derivatives identified  other assets are composed as follows:
the consideration for the german operations. the shares  within the transaction and included in non-current other 
are accounted for at fair value through profit and loss in  financial assets, which represents the maximum exposure   
eur million dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018
accordance with ifrs 9. as of december 31, 2019, the  to loss as of december 31, 2019. the derivatives are classi-
shares are measured at their fair value of € 82.20 per share  fied as financial instruments measured at fair value   
advance payments / 
(in total € 271.3 million). further, the investments mainly  through profit or loss.
prepaid expenses 23.5 19.6
relate to a minority stake in zomato media private ltd., 
value-added-tax receivables 23.1 7.1
india, acquired in 2019 as part of the zomato acquisition,  current other financial assets as of december 31, 2019 com-
miscellaneous other assets 20.8 28.1
shares in ani technologies private limited (ani), india,  prise derivative financial instruments and include the deal- 
holding company of the ola group and a minority stake in  contingent option of € 41.8 million that the group entered  total 67.4 54.8
barogo co. ltd., a logistics company in korea. these invest- into in connection with the planned transaction with  thereof current 65.6 54.5
ments are recognized at their fair value of € 95.6 million.  woowa (refer to section d.02. acquisitions and h.02.  thereof non-current 1.8 0.3
further, investments include several convertible loans in  financial instruments).
the total amount of € 3.4 million as of december 31, 2019. 
04. trade and other receivables as of december 31, 2019, the miscellaneous other assets 
as of april 4, 2019, delivery hero entered into a multi-year  the following table gives an overview of trade and other  contain prepayments on services of € 13.1 million (prior 
agreement in relation to 3.2 million of the total 9.5 million  receivables: year: € 1.4 million).
shares in takeaway.com that were received in connection 
with the sale of the german operations. as part of the    in the prior year, receivables of € 22.1 million from funds 
eur million dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018
transaction the respective shares were transferred into a  transferred to an escrow agent for the settlement of an 
custody account and sold by morgan stanley at the day of    earn-out liability in connection with the acquisition of 
receivables from payment 
the transaction. cash proceeds from such transaction in   carriage group were included in miscellaneous other 
 service provider 67.4 30.5
the amount of € 208.0 million were transferred to delivery   assets. the funds were released in 2019.
trade receivables 26.5 20.6
hero. the agreement comprising a combination of several 
purchase price receivable 4.2 26.7
short call and long put positions limits the downside risk 
of fair value changes of the share while allowing  miscellaneous 31.3 7.3
delivery hero to participate in part of further share price  total 129.3 85.1
appreciations. following the derecognition requirements 
of ifrs 9, the shares that are subject to the agreement 
were derecognized as of april 4, 2019. delivery hero has  the increase in trade and other receivables is mainly due 
the right to repurchase the shares through repayment of  to the organic growth of the group in 2019. miscellaneous 
the cash proceeds received from the transaction  receivables include € 12.1 million short-term deposits with 
(€ 208.0 million). the agreement represents a continuing  a maturity > 3 months, € 7.9 million security payments 
involvement in the derecognized financial assets and  made upon the signing of a secondary transaction to 
expires in tranches between october 2021 and september  acquire additional shares in glovo and € 7.1 million of given 
deposits in 2019.
121
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
06. deferred income taxes the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities results  deferred tax assets for tax loss carryforwards and deduct-
deferred tax assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2019  from the effects presented below: ible temporary differences are recognized only to the extent 
and 2018 are as follows: that taxable temporary differences exist or that the reali-
  zation of the tax benefit through future taxable profits is 
dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018 eur million dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018  probable. the group has not recognized any deferred tax 
      assets for temporary differences amounting to € 13.0 million 
eur million assets  liabilities  assets  liabilities  deferred tax assets 0.4 0.0 ( previous year: € 17.7 million). further, no deferred tax 
  deferred tax liabilities 36.1 41.8 assets are recorded for trade tax loss carryforwards of 
deferred taxes 30.8 66.5 8.8 50.6 net deferred taxes  € 57.0 million (previous year: € 209.02 million) and for cor-
offsetting –30.4 –30.4 –8.8 –8.8  recognized 35.7 41.8 poration tax loss carryforwards of € 860.2 million (previous 
total 0.4 36.1 – 41.8 year-on-year change –6.1 –39.8 year: € 588.7 million). the trade tax loss carryforwards as 
thereof recognized   well as the temporary differences have no limitations on 
in profit or loss –4.9 –1.3 utilization. the limitation on utilization of corporation tax 
the increase in deferred tax assets and liabilities (before  thereof recognized  loss carryforwards is as follows: 
offsetting) results mainly from the recognition of deferred  directly in oci/equity 1 –2.1 –11.9
tax assets and liabilities on right-of-use assets and lease  thereof (de-) recognized   
upon acquisitions/  eur million dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018
liabilities in the course of the first time adoption of ifrs 16. 
divestments2 0.9 –26.6
further, amortization of intangible assets identified in pre-  
1  includes translation differences of € 2.2 million (previous year:  total corporation tax  
vious acquisitions and currency effects affected the 
€ 10.7 million). loss carryforwards 860.2 588.7
deferred tax positions.  2  in 2018 thereof relating to reclassification of the deferred taxes of the 
disposal group € 27.4 million.   
expiration
within 5 years 151.3 56.1
after 5 years 305.9 126.0
eligible to be carried  
forward indefinitely 403.0 406.5
classes of assets and liabilities related to temporary 
differences:
122
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
eur million dec. 31, 2019
change  thereof 
deferred   deferred    during    recognized in 
tax assets tax liabilities the year profit or loss
 
assets
non-current assets
intangible assets 0.0 43.6 5.3 3.5
property, plant and equipment 0.2 21.9 –21.1 –21.5
other financial assets 0.2 0.0 0.3 0.2
trade and other receivables 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1
other assets 0.5 0.0 0.5 0.6
 
current assets
inventories 0.0 0.0 –0.5 –0.2
trade and other receivables 0.5 0.3 0.2 0.4
 
equity and liabilities
non-current liabilities
financial liabilities 0.0 0.2 –0.2 –0.2
pension provisions 0.6 0.0 0.5 0.3
other provisions 0.5 0.0 0.2 –0.1
trade and other payables 15.8 0.0 15.2 14.5
other liabilities 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0
 
current liabilities
other provisions 1.1 0.0 0.8 0.8
trade and other payables 3.6 0.4 2.9 3.8
other liabilities 1.1 0.1 1.0 1.3
total temporary differences 24.2 66.5 5.2 3.5
tax loss carryforwards 6.6 0.0 0.9 1.4
total 30.8 66.5 6.1 4.9
offsetting –30.4 –30.4
total after offsetting 0.4 36.1    
123
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
eur million dec. 31, 2018 no deferred tax liabilities on temporary differences relat-
change  thereof  ing to interests in subsidiaries of € 5.8 million (previous 
deferred   deferred    during    recognized in  year: € 7.4 million) were recognized, as it is not probable 
tax assets tax liabilities the year profit or loss
that the temporary differences will be reversed in the fore-
 
seeable future. 
assets
non-current assets
07. inventories
intangible assets 0.0 48.9 58.4 3.5 inventories of the group consist mainly of branded and 
property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.6 0.0 0.0 unbranded packages, bags and other items that are pro-
other financial assets 0.0 0.1 –1.0 –0.8 vided to restaurants, and rider equipment. in the second 
half of 2019 the rollout of dark stores in mena and asia 
trade and other receivables 0.0 0.1 –0.1 –0.1
contributed to the increased level of inventories.
 
current assets
the amount of inventories recognized as an expense 
inventories 1.0 0.5 –0.5 –0.4
during the period amounts to € 16.9 million (previous 
other assets 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.1
year: € 5.6 million).
 
equity and liabilities
non-current liabilities
pension provisions 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0
other provisions 0.3 0.0 –0.2 –0.2
trade and other payables 0.6 0.0 0.6 0.0
other liabilities 0.1 0.0 0.1 –0.1
current liabilities
other provisions 0.3 0.0 –1.0 –0.8
trade and other payables 0.5 0.4 1.6 1.2
other liabilities 0.1 0.0 –0.1 –0.1
total temporary differences 3.1 50.6 57.8 2.2
tax loss carryforwards 5.7 0.0 –17.9 –0.9
total 8.8 50.6 39.9 1.3
offsetting –8.8 –8.8
total after offsetting 0.0 41.8
124
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
08. cash and cash equivalents cash outflows the change in subscribe capital is summarized as follows:
cash and cash equivalents are composed as follows: —   payments for the acquisitions of zomato uae 
( including minority investments in zomato holding),   
  hungrig group, delivery rd and foody resulted in a  eur 2019
eur million dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018 net cash outflow of € 176.4 million (refer to d.02.)  
  subscribed capital on january 1 185,930,494
cash at banks 697.2 357.1 refer to the consolidated statement of cash flows for a  thereof treasury shares 78,230
cash on hand 2.2 7.0 detailed presentation of the 2019 cash flows. issuances for non-cash contribution 0
total 699.4 364.1 issuances for cash contribution 2,844,545
as of the reporting date cash of € 0.8 million was restricted 
registered capital on december 31  188,775,039
in use.
thereof treasury shares 78,230
the increase in cash and cash equivalents as of  december 31, 
2019 is the result of net inflows from investing activities  09. equity
(€ 627.3 million), in particular the proceeds in connection  a) subscribed capital
with the disposal of the german businesses. contrary, con- between january 1, 2019 and december 31, 2019, the num- the increase in subscribed capital for cash contribution 
tinuing investments in the growth of the group, primarily  ber of shares increased from 185,930,494 to 188,775,039 in  relates to the exercise of equity-settled stock options during 
marketing activities, resulted in a negative operating cash  the course of four capital increases.  the year 2019.
flow (€ 364.8 million). significant cash flows in 2019 are 
summarized below:  the nominal value is € 1.00 per share. the subscribed cap-
ital of delivery hero se as of december 31, 2019 was fully 
cash inflows paid up.
—   net cash inflow from the sale of the german 
 operations of € 487.5 million 
—   cash inflow of € 208.0 million from the block sale 
of 3.2 million shares in takeaway.com n.v. (refer 
 section d.03.d)
—   cash inflow of € 27.6 million from capital increases in 
connection with the exercise of equity-settled stock 
options in 2019 (refer to section f.09.a) and f.09.c)).
125
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
b) authorized and conditional capital: d) retained earnings and other reserves
the authorized and conditional capital of delivery hero se  other comprehensive income for the period developed as 
as of december 31, 2019 consists of 154,727,337 shares  follows:
 (previous year: 154,571,882 shares).
attributable to the owners of the parent
c) capital reserves revaluation  total other 
dh’s capital reserves increased by € 56.4 million in the  currency  reserve   non-    compre- 
 translation  for pension  controlling   hen sive
reporting year, which is attributable to the following 
eur million reserve  commitments total interests income (loss)
circumstances:
 
2019          
—   € 24.7 million contributions of the premiums from 
effect from foreign currency  
issuing new registered shares in the course of the 
translation differences –27.4 – –27.4 – –27.4
exercise of equity-settled options
remeasurement of net liability  
—   € 35.9 million increase due to the vesting of the  from defined benefit plans – –1.3 –1.3 – –1.3
 equity-settled share-based payment awards
total –27.4 –1.3 –28.7 – –28.7
—   adversely, capital reserves decreased by € 3.2 million 
 
in the course of modification of the settlement meth-
2018          
od for the virtual share program 2017 (“vsp 2017”) 
effect from foreign currency  
from equity-settled to cash-settled
translation differences –93.0 – –93.0 – –93.0
remeasurement of net liability  
from defined benefit plans – –0.4 –0.4 – –0.4
total –93.0 –0.4 –93.4 – –93.4
the effect of movement in exchange rates in 2019 and 2018 
is mainly attributable to attributable to translation of 
 turkish lira and argentinian peso into euros. 
126
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
e) treasury shares sensitivities of the present value of the defined benefit  the dh group has no qualifying plan assets recognized in 
the number of treasury shares remained unchanged com- obligations (dbo) are presented below: the consolidated statement of financial position as of 
pared to december 31, 2018 at 78,230 shares.      december 31, 2018 and 2017.
eur million 2019 2018
10. pension provisions   contributions of € 1.6 million are expected to the pension 
dbo on the basis of the 
in accordance with statutory requirements the dh group  plans for the 2020 financial year.
 current discount rate 
maintains defined benefit plans in korea and turkey. in  assumption 4.1 2.7
korea, beneficiaries are entitled to one month’s salary for  11. other provisions
dbo given an increase in  
each year of employment after one year of continuous  the discount rate of   restoration obligations arise from lease arrangements for 
employment. the payment is measured on the average  1 percentage point 3.9 2.6 office premises in several countries. settlement of these lia-
monthly pay during the final three months of employment  dbo given a decrease in   bilities is contingent on the underlying lease terms. dh group 
and is awarded as a lump sum. the retirement age in korea  the discount rate of   expects to settle the liability over the next seven years. 
1 percentage point 4.2 2.9
is 60 years. in turkey, lump sum termination indemnities 
are provided to each employee who has completed one  dbo on the basis of the  the other personnel provisions comprise short-term 
 current salary trend 
year of service and whose employment is terminated due  employee benefits and termination benefits accounted 
 assumption 4.1 2.7
to retirement or for reasons other than resignation or  for in accordance with ias 19, mainly bonuses and redun-
dbo given an increase in  
misconduct. dancy payments. the group expects the liability to be 
the salary trend of  
1 percentage point 4.2 2.9 settled within the next twelve months.
the provision is determined using the projected unit credit 
dbo given a decrease in  
method. the actuarial assumptions underlying the calcu- the salary trend of   the provision for share-based compensation as of the 
lation are summarized below: 1 percentage point 3.9 2.6 reporting date relates to the vsp 2017 for which the settle-
ment method was changed in may 2019 from equity-settled 
     the present value of the defined benefit obligation  to cash-settled.
% 2019 2018
changed as follows:
       other provisions increased mainly as result of potential 
actuarial interest rate 1.66 – 2.70 2.13 – 3.60 eur million 2019 2018
obligations with regard to the social security status of 
salary trend 3.02 – 15.90 2.69 – 11.00    riders as well as legal disputes. 
dbo on jan. 1 2.7 1.9
mortality – males 0.02 – 0.03 0.03
mortality – females 0.01 – 0.02 0.01 addition due to   as of the reporting date, contingent liabilities from legal 
business combination 0.0 0.0
disputes and tax contingencies amount to € 1.4 million 
service cost 1.6 1.3
(previous year: € 0.2 million). 
pension benefits –1.1 –0.6
interest expense 0.0 0.0
actuarial losses 0.9 0.1
currency translation 0.0 0.0
dbo on dec. 31 4.1 2.7
127
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
the following table shows the change of other provisions  12. trade and other payables
and their breakdown by maturity date: trade and other payables are composed as follows:
restoration  share-based  eur million dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018
eur million obligation personnel compensation others total
 
  current financial liabilities
as of jan. 1, 2019 2.3 5.6 0.1 3.1 11.0
liabilities to restaurants 214.7 105.7
addition 0.3 13.4 10.6 26.3 50.6
trade payables 63.4 29.3
utilized 0.0 0.6 – 0.1 0.6
liabilities for outstanding 
reversed – –3.1 0.0 –1.3 –4.4 invoices 71.3 29.4
exchange rate differences 0.0 0.0 –0.1 0.0 –0.1 purchase price liabilities  
and earn-outs 43.9 5.5
disposals due to deconsolidation 0.0 –4.3 0.0 0.6 –3.7
lease liability according  
 
to ifrs 16 29.7 –
as of dec. 31, 2019 2.6 12.1 10.6 28.9 54.2
finance leases according  
non-current 2.3 4.5 – 0.1 6.9
to ias 17 – 1.3
current 0.3 7.6 10.6 28.7 47.3
security deposits received 2.6 0.9
wallet liabilities 2.4 –
miscellaneous 44.8  –
total current financial 
 liabilities 472.9 172.1
 
non-current financial  
liabilities    
liabilities to restaurants – 1.6
purchase price liabilities  
and earn-outs 36.4 5.3
lease liability according to 
ifrs 16 89.7 –
finance leases according to 
ias 17 – 1.1
security deposits received 0.7 0.6
miscellaneous 5.9 0.0
total non-current liabilities 132.6 8.6
128
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
the purchase price liabilities and earn-outs mainly include  other long-term employee benefit liabilities (non-current  g.  disclosures on the consolidated  statement 
obligations from the acquisitions of zomato uae and  and current portion) arose during acquisitions in 2019 and  of comprehensive income
 hungrig group in 2019. previous periods. employees of the acquired entities are 
entitled to payments contingent on performance targets  01. revenue
in 2019, miscellaneous current financial liabilities include  over an agreed service period.  revenue is composed as follows:
€ 44.8 million relating to the deal-contingent usd/eur  change
option premium payable upon closing of the planned  liabilities to employees primarily relate to wages and sala-   eur 
woowa transaction (refer to section h.02. for further  ries of € 11.9 million (previous year: € 12.0 million) and  eur million 2019 2018  million %
details). accrued vacation of € 13.3 million (previous year:   
€ 5.9 million). commissions 958.3 501.8 456.6 91.0
13. other liabilities delivery fees1 313.6 102.8 210.8 > 100
other liabilities are composed as follows: taxes and charges primarily comprise vat payables and  prime placings 75.3 50.8 24.5 48.3
 taxes on salaries.
credit card use 52.4 25.2 27.1 > 100
eur million dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018
other 63.2 25.5 37.7 > 100
  14. income tax liabilities
non-current other liabilities     income tax liabilities arose in group entities with positive  less discounts –225.3 –41.0 –184.3 > 100
other long-term   taxable income or from local withholding tax obligations  revenue 1,237.6 665.1 572.5 86.1
employee benefits 4.0 3.2 on intercompany group charges. 1 fees charged separately to the orderers for delivery services.
miscellaneous 0.1 0.0
total non-current   reimbursement claims from overpayment of trade and 
other liabilities 4.1 3.2 corporation taxes are shown in income tax receivables. all revenues result from contracts with customers. the 
  growth in revenue is mainly driven by organic growth in 
current other liabilities all segments.
taxes and charges 22.2 12.7
liabilities to employees 25.8 18.0
deferred income 4.5 2.3
social security liabilities 7.2 3.6
other long-term employee 
benefits (current portion) 8.4 22.1
miscellaneous 9.3 9.6
total current  
other  liabilities 77.4 68.4
129
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
in the following table, revenue is further disaggregated by 
segment and by type of service (commission/non-commis-
sion).
segments
europe
(without germany) asia americas mena others total
eur million 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018
 
commission 133.1 92.8 318.2 128.0 76.8 47.6 430.1 221.2 – 12.2 958.3 501.8
discounts on commissions –225.3 –41.0
total commissions revenue 133.1 92.8 318.2 128.0 76.8 47.6 430.1 221.2 – 12.2 733.0 460.8
non-commission revenue 40.1 23.1 137.2 64.5 33.6 14.5 286.5 95.2 7.2 7.0 504.6 204.3
total group revenue 
(continued operations) 173.2 115.9 455.5 192.5 110.4 62.1 716.6 316.4 7.2 19.2 1,237.6 665.1
in 2019 “others” includes revenues from other on-demand  change the increase in cost-of-sales is primarily attributable to the 
items where delivery hero acts as principal that are  continuous expansion of the own delivery business includ-
  eur 
 presented net of merchandise value (gross profit presen- eur million 2019 2018  million % ing the launch of dark stores. delivery expenses include 
tation). in the prior period, revenues from operations aban-   own delivery personnel (€ 144.9 million; previous 
doned or sold in australia, france, italy and the nether- delivery  year: € 95.7 million) as well as external riders and other 
lands were included. expenses –777.0 –258.3 –518.7 > 100 operating delivery expenses (€ 632.1 million; previous 
fees for payment  year: € 162.6 million).
services –60.3 –28.3 –32.0 > 100
refer to section e.02.a) for the development of revenue 
per segment. server hosting –17.2 –9.1 –8.1 89.2 further, general business growth leads to a higher overall 
purchase of ter- cost-of-sales. fees for payment services are further  impacted 
02. cost-of-sales  minals and other  by a higher online payment share.
pos systems –9.7 –6.8 –2.9 42.8
cost-of-sales are composed as follows:
expenses for 
data transfer –5.1 –2.5 –2.6 > 100
goods and 
 merchandise –5.9 –3.8 –2.1 53.4
call center 
expenses –0.1 –0.5 0.4 –90.4
rider equipment –13.6 –3.1 –10.4 > 100
dark stores –8.4 0.0 –8.4 > 100
other costs  
of sales –29.3 –5.5 –23.8 > 100
total –926.4 –318.0 –608.4 > 100
130
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
03. marketing expenses 04. it expenses 05. general administrative expenses
marketing expenses are composed as follows: it expenses are composed as follows: general administrative expenses are composed as follows:
change change change
  eur    eur    eur 
eur million 2019 2018  million % eur million 2019 2018  million % eur million 2019 2018  million %
     
customer  personnel  personnel 
 acquisition –239.3 –148.6 –90.7 61.1 expenses –65.4 –38.2 –27.3 71.4 expenses –128.6 –96.8 –31.8 32.9
restaurant  other non-  share-based 
 acquisition –150.4 –91.7 –58.7 64.0 personnel    payment 
it expenses –29.4 –16.1 –13.3 82.4 expenses –44.8 –17.2 –27.6 > 100
amortization  
of brands –15.8 –13.6 –2.2 16.4 total –94.8 –54.3 –40.5 74.6 audit and 
 consulting 
expenses for 
expenses –52.3 –25.8 –26.4 > 100
write-downs on 
customer/  it expenses primarily relate to research and development  depreciation  
supplier base –12.1 –13.0 0.9 –6.8 (€ 65.0 million; previous year: € 36.2 million) of new fea- and 
other marketing  tures and services that may be added to the group’s plat-  amortization –60.5 –13.7 –46.7 > 100
expenses –77.6 –47.1 –30.5 64.8 forms but also to the improvement and maintenance of  rent and lease 
expenses –6.6 –15.8 9.1 –58.0
total –495.2 –313.9 –181.3 57.8 the existing functionalities. refer to section a.06. for fur-
ther information on research and development. other office 
expenses –23.2 –11.7 –11.5 98.9
 
the increasing investments in customer marketing, espe- travel expenses –16.4 –9.1 –7.2 79.3
cially in the asia segment, are a result of the rising com- other (non- 
petition in certain markets, the continuous rollout of own  income) taxes –6.8 –5.5 –1.3 24.6
delivery operations in new cities and areas as well as the  telecommuni-
cations –4.1 –3.1 –1.0 31.7
rollout of multi-verticals, including dark stores, in further 
markets. miscellaneous –30.3 –18.5 –11.9 64.2
total –373.5 –217.2 –156.3 72.0
the rise in restaurant acquisition expenses is the result of 
an extended restaurant portfolio and an increased restau-
rant sales coverage. 
 
131
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
the increase in personnel expenses is linked to the general  06. other operating income 07.  other operating expenses and impairment  
growth of the group and the strengthening of central and  other operating income is composed as follows: losses on trade receivables and contract assets
regional administrative functions as well as to structural  other operating expenses are composed as follows:
enhancements in connection with the rollout of multi-  change
verticals. further, expenses of € 13.3 million (previous year:    eur  change
€ 30.1 million) were recognized herein for earn-out liabili- eur million 2019 2018  million %   eur 
ties in connection with acquisitions in the current and pre-   eur million 2019 2018  million %
vious periods. gain from   
 settlement of  loss from 
warranty claims 9.3 0.0 9.3 > 100  disposal of 
the increase in share-based payments expense is attribut-
gain from    subsidiaries –2.0 –3.8 1.8 –47.9
able to the further rollout of the long-term incentive plan 
the recharge   losses on the 
(ltip) implemented in 2018. for further information on the  of costs 7.3 0.0 7.3 > 100 disposal of  
group’s share-based payment programs refer to section  gain from  fixed assets –0.6 –0.3 –0.3 94.5
h.01.  disposal of  impairment  
 subsidiaries 0.4 8.2 –7.8 –94.9 of goodwill –2.0 –4.3 2.3 –53.6
audit and consulting expenses increased mainly due to  miscellaneous 2.9 1.8 1.1 59.2 miscellaneous –2.1 –0.8 –1.3 > 100
m&a-related activities throughout the year. total 19.9 10.0 9.8 98.0 total other 
operating 
depreciation and amortization increased as a result of  expenses –6.7 –9.2 2.3 –53.6
adopting ifrs 16 as of january 1, 2019. the depreciation  the gain from the settlement of warranty claims of  impairment 
expenses for right-of-use assets amount to € 27.0 million  € 9.3 million relates to the acquisition of the foodpanda  losses on trade 
and other 
(previous year: n/a) whereas the expenses for leases  group in 2016. the gain from the recharge of costs of 
receivables –8.8 –4.3 –4.5 > 100
decreased to € 6.6 million (2018: € 15.4 million). we refer  € 7.3 million relates to the recharge of costs to takeaway.
to note c.a. for further details on the transition to ifrs 16.
in the previous year, the disposal gain of € 8.2 million  the bad debt expense increased partly as a result of the 
resulted from the divestitures of subsidiaries in italy,  brazil  organic growth of dh group and partly due to the grow-
and switzerland.  ing rider fleet and the respective rider receiva bles. 
132
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
08. net interest cost 09. o  ther financial result and result from  the result from equity-accounted investees amounted to 
net interest cost is composed as follows:  equity-accounted investees negative € 99.7 million (prior year: negative € 38.6 million) 
other financial result is composed as follows: mostly resulting from the pro rata loss of the investments 
change in rappi and glovo.
  eur  change
eur million 2019 2018  million %   eur  the result from remeasurement of financial instruments 
  eur million 2019 2018  million % fvtpl includes income from fair value adjustments of the 
interest and    investments measured at fair value through profit and loss – 
 similar income 7.6 5.5 2.0 36.9 result from  comprising mainly valuations of shares in takeaway.com, 
interest and  remeasurement 
ola and zomato uae (€ 64.5 million). adversely, measure-
 similar expenses –17.0 –2.7 –14.2 > 100 of financial 
instruments  ment effects of € 4.9 million in connection with the t ransfer 
total –9.4 2.8 –12.2 > 100 fvtpl 59.6 0.0 59.6 > 100 of 3.2 million shares in takeaway.com (refer to section f.03. 
foreign cur- other financial assets). other financial assets and the deal- 
  rency gains/ contingent usd/eur option (refer to section h.02. finan-
losses –4.8 15.1 –19.9 > 100
the interest income predominantly results from interest  cial instruments) are included.
on excess cash.  result on net 
monetary 
gains from disposal of investments relate to the sale of 
 position (hyper-
interest expenses increased partly due to the first time  inflation) 13.8 3.7 10.1 > 100 shares in takeaway.com in the second half of the reporting 
application of ifrs 16 (€ 5.3 million) and expenses from dis- period (€ 20.2 million).
result from 
counting of earn-out liabilities (€ 3.2 million). in addition,  equity- 
interest and similar expenses include effects from hyper- accounted  since the third quarter of 2018 argentina has been evaluated 
 investees –99.7 –38.6 –61.1 > 100
inflation accounting for the argentine entities of  as a hyperinflationary economy. the application of ias 29 
€ 2.6 million (previous year: € 1.5 million). gains from   resulted in a net gain of € 13.8 million on the position of the 
 disposal of 
argentine operations (previous year: € 3.7 million). 
investments 20.2 0.0 20.2 > 100
gains from 
derecognition 
of equity- 
accounted 
investees 5.2 0.0 5.2 > 100
miscellaneous –0.3 0.0 –0.4 > 100
 
total –6.0 –19.9 13.9 –70.1
133
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
foreign currency gains and losses predominantly resulted  the effective income tax expense is reconciled as follows: the tax expense for 2019 relating to the gain from discon-
from the devaluation of the euro compared to other local  tinued operations amounts to € 3.3 million.
currencies of group companies in connection with inter- eur million 2019 2018
company loan agreements and foreign currency balances.   the tax rate of the group is 30.18% and corresponds to the 
earnings before income taxes –664.2 –258.8 tax rate of delivery hero se. it comprises the tax rate for 
10. income taxes income tax using the   corporation tax inclusive of the solidarity surcharge of 
income tax expense is broken down as follows: companyʼs domestic tax rate  15.83% and the trade tax rate of 14.35%.
(2019: 30.18%; 2018: 30.18%) 200.5 78.1
change adjustments
  eur  deviations between the 
eur million 2019 2018  million %  companyʼs domestic and   
 foreign tax rates –39.9 –15.4
 
income tax  non-deductible  
expense –26.5 –18.3 –8.2 45.1 operating expenses –16.5 –11.1
tax-exempt income 6.3 8.5
current  
income taxes –31.4 –19.6 –11.8 60.2 tax effects from adding and 
deducting for local taxes –0.3 –0.4
current period 
income taxes  –29.0 –19.7 –9.3 47.2 effects from partnerships –0.7 –0.1
prior period  effects from the non- 
income taxes –2.4 0.1 –2.5 > 100 recognition of deferred  
tax assets on tax loss 
deferred  
 carryforwards –104.0 –62.0
income taxes 4.9 1.3 3.6 > 100
previous-period deferred 
income taxes 0.9 0.0
previous-period current 
income taxes –1.3 0.5
effects from  
consolidation measures –3.4 0.0
effects of equity- 
accounted investees –29.6 –11.8
effects of goodwill 
 impairment –0.4 –1.3
permanent differences –37.9 –3.6
other tax effects –0.2 0.3
income taxes –26.5 –18.3
134
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
h. other disclosures each tranche awarded vests quarterly over one year after  the options outstanding at december 31, 2019 had strike 
the contractual grant date. the first award is generally sub- prices between € 36.64 and € 44.89 (previous year: € 38.30 
01. share-based payments ject to a 24 months cliff. a bad leaver loses all vested and  to € 44.89) and a weighted average remaining contractual 
the dh group has been operating share-based payment  unvested awards. a good leaver retains all vested rsus and  life of 62 months (previous year: 68 months).
programs since 2011. at december 31, 2019, the group had  stock options. the sop contains a revenue-based perfor-
the following share-based payment arrangements: mance target. the plan contributed € 35.5 million of expenses in 2019 
(previous year: € 10.8 million).
ltip the awards will be settled in shares. even though delivery  
terms and conditions hero has the right to settle in cash equal to the fair value  dh sop
in 2018 delivery hero se issued a long-term incentive plan  of the shares at the settlement date, dh does not intend to  terms and conditions
(ltip) consisting of two types of awards: restricted stock  exercise this right. the beneficiaries of dh sop received option rights, en  -
plan (rsp) and stock option program (sop). eligible par- titling them to subscribe for shares in delivery hero se sub-
ticipants are the management board, managing directors  measurement of fair values ject to certain conditions. the awards vest gradually over 
of certain subsidiaries and other members of the manage- the grant date fair value of the awards is a contractually  a period of up to 48 months subject to individual cliff pro-
ment as well as certain employees. delivery hero commits  fixed euro value. the grant date fair value subject to per- visions of generally 12 to 24 months. if a beneficiary leaves 
to award restricted stock units (rsus) and stock options  formance targets was not reduced as it is considered  the company before completing the vesting requirements, 
based on a certain euro amount per year over the period   probable that the performance target will be achieved. the individual forfeits his/her rights under the program. 
of four years. the award consists of individual tranches 
(four in total) that are awarded to the participants in a sin- reconciliation of outstanding options and rsu:
gle agreement in year one.  2019 2018
weighted  weighted 
every year a number of rsus and stock options are a llocated  number    average   number   number    average   number  
of options  exercise price of rsu of options  exercise price of rsu
to each beneficiary. each annual tranche is determined by 
dividing the granted award amount (a) by the fair market   
outstanding as of january 1  941,083 41.69 149,046 0 0.00 0
value of one rsu derived from the 30-day average dh 
granted during the year1 1,466,677 38.37 562,685 954,760 41.64 152,390
share price prior to the annual grant date and/or (b) by the 
fair market value of one stock option whereby the strike  forfeited during the year  396,338 41.84 119,326 13,677 38.46 3,344
price of each option is determined based on the three- exercised during the year  0 n/a 0 0 n/a 0
month average price per share before the annual grant  outstanding at december 31  2,011,422 39.25 592,405 941,083 41.69 149,046
date. 
exercisable at december 31 – n/a – – n/a –
1  reflects number of options and shares fixed at the reporting date.
135
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
the group plans to settle by means of equity instruments  reconciliation of outstanding share options
and classifies the program as an equity-settled share-based  2019 2018
payment arrangement. in the event of certain exit events  weighted  weighted   
(e.g., a change of control), the program conditions provide  number of   average   number of   average  
options  exercise price options  exercise price
for a cash settlement by the group. however, the occur-
rence of such an event is currently considered unlikely.   
outstanding as of january 1 6,780,772 11.91 9,704,500 11.13
forfeited/cancelled  
measurement of fair values
during the year –767,756 13.78 –904,527 14.88
in 2019 no additional awards were granted.
granted during the year 0 n/a 0 0.00
the grant date fair value of the dh sop awards was deter- exercised during the year –2,848,145 10.55 – 2,019,201 6.85
mined on the date of reclassification from cash-settled to  outstanding at december 31 3,164,871 12.68 6,780,772 11.91
equity-settled share-based payment awards on may 29,  exercisable at december 31 0 0.00 0 0.00
2017 using an option pricing model (black-scholes model). 
the key inputs used in the measurement of the fair value 
were as follows: share price of € 23.39, volatility of 36.21%, 
exercise price of € 1 to € 18, weighted average expected  beneficiaries of the dh sop were able to exercise their  virtual share program 2017
life of 37 months and a risk-free interest rate of 0.0%. the  equity-settled rights within two exercise windows in 2019,  terms and conditions
expected volatility was derived by applying a standard peer  which led to capital increases of the subscribed capital of  in 2017 delivery hero granted virtual share options to 
group. the share price was derived from the naspers  € 2.8 million and an increase of the capital reserve of  employees under the virtual share program (vsp 2017), which 
financing round that took place in may 2017. the measure- € 24.7 million. the weighted average share price on the  entitle the beneficiaries to a compensation based on the 
ment resulted in the weighted average fair value of € 13  date of exercise of the exercised options was € 32.15 and  appreciation in dh se shares over strike price as specified 
per option. € 40.00, respectively (previous year: € 38.55 and € 38.64). in individual contracts, subject to certain conditions.
the range of exercise prices for options outstanding at the  in may 2019, management changed the settlement method 
end of the year was € 1 to € 18 (previous year: € 1 to € 18).  of the vsp 2017 in line with the terms and conditions of the 
program from equity-settled to cash-settled. the modifica-
the weighted average remaining contractual life for the  tion resulted in a valuation expense of € 1.6 million and an 
share options outstanding as of december 31, 2019 was  increase of the liability for share-based payments to 
26 months (previous year: 38 months). € 4.8 million at the time of conversion. 
due to leaver effects, the dh sop caused an income of  the awards vest gradually over a period of 48 months, sub-
€ 1.0 million in 2019 (previous year: expense of € 4.5 million). ject to individual cliff provisions of 12 to 24 months. if a ben-
eficiary leaves the company before completing the vesting 
requirements, the individual forfeits his/her rights under 
the program.
136
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
measurement of fair values the program includes two tranches. the vesting period 
the fair value is determined using an option pricing  model  for tranche 1 is up to december 31, 2018, and the vesting 
(black-scholes model). the key inputs used in the measure- period for tranche 2 up to december 31, 2019. 
ment of the fair value were as follows: share price of € 70.56, 
volatility of 47%, weighted average strike price of € 16.88,  total expense for the period was € 1.0 million in 2019 
weighted average expected life of 38 months and a risk- ( previous year: € 0.7 million).
free interest rate of –0.63%. the measurement resulted in 
the weighted average fair value of € 53.91 per option. 02. financial instruments
reconciliation of outstanding options a)  fair value disclosures
2019 2018  the tables below show the carrying amounts and fair val-
weighted  weighted    ues of financial assets and financial liabilities, including 
number of   average   number of   average   their levels in the fair value hierarchy. 
options  exercise price options  exercise price
  the following abbreviations are used for the measurement 
outstanding as of january 1 240,600 16.90 258,600 16.88
categories:
forfeited during the year –14,550 17.15 –18,000 16.67
granted during the year – n/a – n/a —  faaac: financial assets at amortized cost
exercised during the year – 12,813 16.95 – – —  flaac: financial liability at amortized cost
outstanding at december 31 213,237 16.88 240,600 16.90 —   fvtpl: financial instruments at fair value through 
profit or loss
exercisable at december 31 –  n/a  – n/a
the options outstanding at december 31, 2019 had strike  other share-based compensation arrangements
prices ranging from € 16.67 to € 17.67 (previous year: € 16.67  e-food greece
to € 17.67) and a weighted average remaining contractual  on may 2, 2015 ecommerce business 10 s.à r.l. granted the 
life of 38 months (previous year: 51 months). beneficiaries  senior executives of ofd online delivery services ltd (ofd) 
of the vsp 2017 were able to exercise their equity-settled  options for shares in ofd. the option program allows 
rights within one exercise windows in 2019. the weighted  senior executives to participate in the performance of ofd. 
average share price on the date of exercise of the exer- subsequently, this program was extended to further 
cised options was € 41.05. employees of e-food. the option program is accounted 
for as an equity-settled share-based payment arrangement. 
total expense for the period was € 7.9 million in 2019 
( previous year: € 2.2 million).
137
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
dec. 31, 2019
measured at  
measured at amortized cost fair value
classification  carrying   fair   carrying   fair value   
eur million  pursuant to ifrs 9  amount value amount hierarchy  total 
 
non-current financial assets
investments – level 3 fvtpl 107.8 3 107.8
investments – level 1 fvtpl 271.3 1 271.3
derivative financial instruments fvtpl 10.3 2 10.3
loans granted faaac 0.6 0.6 3 0.6
security deposits faaac 5.0 5.0 3 5.0
other financial assets 5.7 389.4 395.1
 
current financial assets            
derivative financial instruments fvtpl 41.9 3 41.9
receivables against payment service providers faaac 71.6 n/a n/a 71.6
trade receivables faaac 26.4 n/a n/a 26.4
other receivables faaac 73.2 n/a n/a 73.2
trade and other receivables 171.3 41.9 213.2
cash and cash equivalents 699.4 n/a n/a 699.4
total financial assets 876.3 431.3 1,307.6
 
non-current financial liabilities            
lease liabilities n/a1 89.7 89.7 n/a 89.7
security deposits received flaac 0.7 0.7 3 0.7
other payables flaac 5.8 5.8 3 5.8
contingent purchase price obligations fvttpl 36.4 3 36.4
trade and other payables 96.2 36.4 132.6
 
current financial liabilities          
trade payables flaac 134.7 n/a n/a 134.7
lease liabilities n/a1 29.7 n/a n/a 29.7
security deposits received flaac 2.6 n/a n/a 2.6
wallet liability flaac 2.4 n/a n/a 2.4
other payables flaac 259.4 n/a n/a 259.4
contingent purchase price obligations fvtpl 43.9 3 43.9
trade and other payables 429.0 43.9 472.9
total financial liabilities 525.2 80.3 605.5
138
1 from january 1, 2019, measurement of lease liabilities follows the requirements of ifrs 16.
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
dec. 31, 2018
measured at  
measured at amortized cost fair value
classification  carrying   fair   carrying   fair value   
eur million  pursuant to ifrs 9  amount value amount hierarchy  total 
 
non-current financial assets
investments fvtpl 43.4 3 43.4
loans granted faaac 2.9 2.9 0 3 2.9
security deposits faaac 3.5 3.5 0 3 3.5
other financial assets   6.4 43.4 49.8
 
current financial assets            
receivables against payment service providers faaac 30.5 n/a   n/a 30.5
trade receivables faaac 20.6 n/a   n/a 20.6
other receivables faaac 34.0 n/a   n/a 34.0
trade and other receivables   85.1     85.1
cash and cash equivalents   364.1 n/a  n/a 364.1
total financial assets   455.6   43.4   498.9
 
non-current financial liabilities            
trade payables flaac 1.6 1.6 1.6
finance lease payables n/a1 1.1 1.1 3 1.1
security deposits received flaac 0.6 0.6 3 0.6
contingent purchase price obligations fvttpl 5.3 3 5.3
trade and other payables   3.3 5.3 8.6
 
current financial liabilities          
trade payables flaac 58.6 n/a   n/a 58.6
finance lease payables n/a1 1.3 n/a   n/a 1.3
security deposits received flaac 0.9 n/a   n/a 0.9
other payables flaac 105.6 n/a   n/a 105.6
contingent purchase price obligations fvtpl 5.5 3 5.5
trade and other payables   166.5 5.5 172.0
total financial liabilities   169.8 10.8 180.6
1 classification and measurements of finance lease payables follows the requirements of ias 17 leases.
139
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
the fair value is not disclosed for some current financial  the following table shows the impact of the deal-contin- the fair value of the deal-contingent option was deter-
assets and current financial liabilities, because their carry- gent option on items of the consolidated statement of  mined by applying a probability-weighted option pricing 
ing amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value due  financial position (before taxes): formula using the garman-kohlhagen model. this model 
to their short-term nature. the fair values of some non-cur- uses parameters that are observable in the relevant 
rent financial assets approximate their carrying amount  dec. 31,   markets including exchange rates, interest rate curves, 
eur million 2019
because there were no significant changes in the measure-  forward rates and volatility. in addition, the closing prob-
ment inputs, since their fair value was determined upon  other current financial assets 41.8 ability for the planned transaction and assumptions of the 
initial recognition.  other current financial liabilities 44.8 closing date were taken into account as significant unob-
servable valuation parameters. the group currently 
in order to hedge the foreign currency risk arising from  level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value  assesses the probability of closing as high and considers 
the usd-nominated cash consideration for the planned  total gains and losses from the change in level 3 instru- closing to be most probable in the second half of 2020.
transaction with woowa, a deal-contingent usd/eur  ments measured at fair value are recognized in other finan-
option with a nominal amount of € 2.5 billion and a term  cial result.  the sensitivity of the fair values to the inputs into the 
until april 15, 2021 was concluded on december 13, 2019.   valuation techniques is discussed in the price risk in  market 
the option premium is payable contingent on the closing  in determining the fair values of the investments, the “ prior  risk section below.
of the transaction. the option has not been designated  sale of company stock” method and discounted cash flows 
into a hedging relationship. the option was recognized as  techniques are applied. the prior sale of company stock 
of the inception date and is accounted for as a financial  method considers any prior arm’s length sales of the  equity 
asset at fair value through profit or loss assigned to level 3  securities. the discounted cash flows technique considers 
of the fair value hierarchy, as the probability of occurrence  the present value of expected payments, discounted using 
of closing is considered as an unobservable input factor  a risk-adjusted discount rate.
for determining the fair value. the corresponding deal-con-
tingent financial liability for the contractual obligation to  the fair values of contingent purchase price obligations 
pay the option premium is recognized within other cur- resulting from business combinations are estimated  taking 
rent financial liabilities. in 2019 a loss of € 3.2 million was  into account the underlying contingency as agreed with 
recognized in connection with the measurement of the  the seller in a particular business combination.
deal-contingent option. 
140
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
the reconciliation of level 3 instruments measured at fair  credit risk
value is as follows: the credit or default risk is the risk that the business part-
assets liabilities ners are unable to fulfill their payment obligations. as in 
deal-contingent  investments –   contingent purchase   the previous year, such risks mainly relate to current trade 
eur million option level 3 price obligations receivables from a broad base of customers, mainly restau-
  rants. the dh group is not exposed to a major default risk 
as of jan. 01, 2018 – – – from any single customer. the dh group monitors the 
reclassified upon adoption of ifrs 9 28.8 – default risk and, as in the previous year, manages it  actively 
additions 16.1 10.8 by making any necessary credit checks and by optimizing 
the payment process. 
disposals – –
losses recorded in profit or loss –1.5 –
the maximum default risk corresponds to the carrying 
as of dec. 31, 2018 – 43.4 10.8
amount of the financial assets. the group does not require 
additions 45.0 47.6 77.4 collateral with respect to its financial assets. as of decem-
disposals – –1.5 –5.2 ber 31, 2019, the group held € 699.4 million (previous year: 
gains/losses recorded in profit or loss –3.2 18.3 –2.7 € 364.1 million) cash and cash equivalents mainly at banks. 
in addition, the group held € 36.4 million deposits and oth-
as of dec. 31, 2019 41.8 107.8 80.3
er similar receivables (previous year: € 37.5 million) with 
financial institutions. most of these balances are held with 
the gains and losses recorded in profit or loss of the  level 3  the gains and losses for individual measurement categories  banks that are rated a+ to bbb+. 
financial instruments are mainly attributable to fair  value  are mainly attributable to fair value changes. they exclude 
adjustments. impairment losses and interest income and expenses.  furthermore, the dh group cooperates with known online 
payment providers, such as mastercard, paypal and adyen. 
net income (loss) by measurement category b) risk management the receivables from online payment providers amounted 
the net gains and losses recognized for individual mea- the dh group is exposed to credit risk, liquidity risk and  to € 71.6 million at december 31, 2019 (previous period: 
surement categories are as follows:  market risk. the dh group actively monitors these risks  € 30.5 million). they were short-term in nature and carried 
   and manages them using a risk management system. the  very low credit risk at the reporting date. therefore, the 
eur million 2019 2018
risk management function is exercised in the governance,  expected losses on all these balances are considered imma-
  risk & compliance (grc) department. further information  terial at the reporting date. moreover, the expected loss-
flaac 0.2 –
regarding the nature and extent of risks arising from finan- es on the loans granted in the amount of € 0.6 million as 
fvtpl (assets) 77.3 –1.5 cial instruments is disclosed in the risk report included in  of december 31, 2019 (previous year € 2.9 million) were 
fvtpl (liabilities) 2.7 – the combined management report. immaterial. 
total 80.2 –1.5
141
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
the group determines the expected credit losses for its  the movement in the allowance account for impairment 
trade receivables from restaurants as follows: in respect of trade receivables was as follows:
large multi-  past due as of december 31, 2019 (in days) allowance account
carrying  national   
eur million amount chains current < 30 30–60 61–90 > 90 eur million 2019 2018
   
gross carrying amount 28.8 2.2 16.6 4.0 2.8 2.1 1.1 january 1 –1.7 –14.0
weighted average loss rate 0.6% 2% 5% 12% 41% 66% adjustment on initial 
loss allowance –2.4 0.0 –0.3 –0.2 –0.3 –0.9 –0.7  application of ifrs 9  – –0.1
amounts derecognized 8.1 15.7
the expected credit losses for trade receivables in the  prior  amoints resulting from 
 discontinued operations – 1.0
period were as follows:
net remeasurement of 
large multi-  past due as of december 31, 2018 (in days)  allowance account –8.8 –4.3
carrying  national  december 31 –2.4 –1.7
eur million amount chains current < 30 30–60 61–90 > 90
 
gross carrying amount 22.3 2.5 12.9 3.1 1.6 1.1 1.2
receivables derecognized in the previous year of 
weighted average loss rate 0.6% 2% 5% 12% 41% 50%
€ 15.7 million were driven by transition effects in the course 
loss allowance –1.7 0.0 –0.3 –0.2 –0.2 –0.4 –0.6
of first time application of ifrs 9.
the provision matrix is calculated based on the actual  least bbb+. trade receivables are derecognized if they are  liquidity risk 
 credit loss experience that takes into account the histori- more than 120 days past due, have been fully provided for  liquidity risk is the risk of being unable to meet the pay-
cal experience as well the economic conditions as of the  (in the current year and previous years) and for which there  ment obligations resulting from financial liabilities, which 
reporting date. the expected losses in relation to trade  is no reasonable expectation of recovery. may arise from unavailability of funds. the exposure to 
receivables from large multinational chain restaurants is  liquidity risk is closely monitored on group level using  daily 
estimated to be 0.6% based on their credit ratings of at  liquidity reports and regular cash forecast reports to 
ensure adequate distribution of funds and early identi-
fication of additional funding needs. 
the following table presents contractual (undiscounted) 
interest and principal payments for the dh group’s finan-
cial liabilities. the maturity is based on the contractual 
payment terms.
142
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
type of liability changes
contractual cash flow   dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018
  carrying 
 
eur million amount total < 1 year 1–5 years > 5 years
eur million +10% –10% +10% –10%
 
 
as of dec. 31, 2019          
usd-eur –66.7 196.0 –23.0 23.0
trade payables 134.7 134.7 134.7 0.0 0.0
kwd-aed 13.4 –13.4 3.9 –3.9
other payables 267.7 267.7 261.9 5.8 0.0
kwd-sar 10.3 –10.3 4.5 –4.5
contingent purchase price obligations  80.3 80.3 43.9 36.4 0.0
eur-hkd 10.2 –10.2 0.2 –0.2
security deposits received 3.3 3.3 2.6 0.3 0.4
eur-thb 10.0 –10.0 0.0 0.0
lease liability 119.4 119.4 29.7 74.5 15.2
eur-sgd 8.3 –8.3 3.4 –3.4
total 605.5 605.5 472.9 117.1 15.6
eur-myr 4.6 –4.6 1.1 –1.1
 
sar-bhd –3.7 3.7 –3.5 3.5
as of dec. 31, 2018
usd-cop 3.6 –3.6 0.0 0.0
trade payables 60.2 60.2 58.6 1.6 0.0
eur-php 3.4 –3.4 1.0 –1.0
other payables 105.7 105.7 105.7 0.0 0.0
eur-pkr 3.1 –3.1 1.0 –1.0
financial liabilities from put option on nci 10.8 10.8 5.5 5.3 0.0
eur-cad 2.6 –2.6 0.0 0.0
security deposits received 1.5 1.5 0.9 0.2 0.4
usd-clp –2.5 2.5 0.7 –0.7
total 178.2 178.2 164.3 1.6 0.4
eur-egp 2.2 –2.2 0.9 –0.9
usd-uyu –1.7 1.7 0.0 0.0
market risk  the expected consideration for the anticipated transaction  usd-try 1.5 –1.5 –0.1 0.1
group entities are exposed to market risks such as  currency  with woowa payable in usd exposes delivery hero to  usd-ars 1.3 –1.3 0.1 –0.1
risk and price risk.  foreign currency risks (refer to section d.02.b)). to mitigate  eur-try –1.3 1.3 –4.5 4.5
the foreign currency risks the company entered into a deal- 
eur-kwd 1.1 –1.1 2.7 –2.7
currency risk contingent usd/eur option (refer to this section above for 
ron-eur –1.1 1.1 0.0 0.0
currency risk arises in particular with regard to intercom- further details on the option). the following table shows 
eur-bdt 1.1 –1.1 0.4 –0.4
pany receivables and payables denominated in foreign  the effects on profit or loss that would result if the foreign 
 currency. also funds held in foreign currencies other than  currencies had appreciated or depreciated by 10% as of the  qar-kwd –0.3 0.3 1.2 –1.2
the functional currency of group entities, particularly usd,  reporting date. eur-twd 0.2 –0.2 1.5 –1.5
expose the group to currency risks. eur-krw 0.0 0.0 9.7 –9.7
bhd-aed 0.0 0.0 1.3 –1.3
143
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
since 2018 argentina has been reported as a hyperinflation- changes of the closing probability as non-observable input  cash and cash equivalents as at the respective financial 
ary economy under ias 29 (refer to section b.14.).  parameter for measurement of the deal-contingent option  year end are included in the table below:
of +/–10% would result in a change in the fair value of the 
price risk option of € +/–4.6 million.      
eur million dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018
price risk in the group arises on investments, derivatives 
and contingent purchase price obligations measured at fair  in the prior period the sensitivity to changes in the inputs   
cash and cash equivalents 699.4 364.1
value through profit or loss as a result of changes in inter- into fair value measurements was as follows:
est rates, equity prices and contingencies. 
december 31, 2018 contin- interest  equity 
gencies rates price
as of december 31, 2019, the effect on the profit or loss in  04. contingencies
 
response to changes in the inputs into the fair value mea- eur million +/–10% +/–100 bp +/–(10%) in 2019, the group has become party to an arbitration pro-
surements would be as follows: (+) means a positive effect  ceeding with a minority shareholder in a group company 
investments n/a –0.7/+0.9 +3.6/–2.6
on profit or loss and (–) means a negative effect on profit  who requests damages and the right to sell his shares in 
contingent purchase 
or loss. the group company. the group assesses the prospect of 
price obligation –0.1/+1.1 +0.1/–0.1 n/a
success for the minority shareholder as not probable.
dec. 31, 2019
volatil- 03. capital management further, claims by a local regulatory authority were raised 
ity eur/ contin- interest  equity 
for the purpose of dh group’s capital management, capi- in 2019 in connection with an m&a transaction. the group 
usd gencies rates price
  tal includes subscribed capital, capital reserves and all  does currently not expect that it is probable that these 
eur million +/–100 bp +/–10% +/–100 bp +/–10%
 other equity reserves attributable to the owners of the  claims will be founded and will defend itself against the 
derivative   parent. the primary objective of dh group’s capital man- claims.
financial 
agement is to safeguard the group’s ability to continue as 
instruments +7.1/–6.6 n/a +0.1/–0.1 +1.4/–1.5
a going concern in order to finance the growth strategy  05. earnings per share
investments n/a n/a –0.8/+0.8 +9.4/–9.4
and to reduce the cost of capital of the group.  basic earnings per share were calculated based on the net 
contingent 
income/loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the 
 purchase price 
obligation n/a –/+4.6 +1.5/–0.8 n/a the capital management strategy, including policies and  weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding 
processes of capital management focuses on the monitor- (in thousands). 
ing of cash and cash equivalents. further, external financ-
ing is monitored; however, as of december 31, 2019 no debt 
from external financing existed.
144
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
change weighted average number of ordinary shares (basic)
2019 2018 absolute %     
thousands of shares 2019 2018
 
consolidated loss for the period    
from continuing  operations eur million –689.9 –277.1 –412.8 > 100 issued ordinary shares  
at jan. 1 186,169 157,734
loss from continuing operations  
attributable to non-controlling interests eur million –1.1 –4.0 2.9 –72.5 effect of treasury  
shares held –78 –60
loss from continuing operations  
attributable to shareholders eur million –688.8 –273.1 –415.7 > 100 effect of shares issued  
for the year 4,264 28,495
number in 
weighted average number of shares issued thousands 190,355 186,169 4,186 2.2 weighted average  
number of ordinary  
diluted and basic earnings per share from  
shares at dec. 31 190,355 186,169
continuing operations eur –3.62 –1.47 –2.15 > 100
profit/(loss) for the period from  
discontinued operations eur million 920.2 234.8 685.4 > 100
the following equity instruments were not taken into 
consolidated profit/loss for the period from  
account in determining the diluted earnings per share 
continuing and discontinued operations  
attributable to shareholders  eur million 231.4 –38.3 269.7 > 100 because their effect would have been anti-dilutive. 
number in 
weighted average number of shares issued thousands 190,355 186,169 4,186 2.2 number of potential ordinary shares
    
diluted and basic earnings per share from  
thousands dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018
discontinued operations eur 4.83 1.26 3.57 > 100
 
diluted and basic earnings per share from  
share-based payments 5,549 7,561
continued and discontinued operations  eur 1.22 –0.21 1.43 > 100
total number of potential 
ordinary shares 5,549 7,561
145
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
06. disclosures on the cost-of-sales method 08. total fee for the auditor tax advisory services amounted to € 12 thousand and 
dh group classifies expenses by their function referred to  the auditor’s fees for services provided by the group  include consulting services in connection with an audit by 
as the cost-of-sales method. in 2019 these expenses   auditor are broken down by service as follows: the german fiscal authorities and advisory services in 
 included: expenses for salaries and wages of € 491.1 million      connection with social security legislation.
eur million 2019 2018
(previous year: € 346.3 million), expenses for social secu-
rity of € 69.8 million (previous year: € 39.6 million), expens-   other services in 2019 amounted to € 26 thousand and 
audit services 1.7 2.0
es for defined benefit plans as well as pension plans of  consist of advisory services in connection with the enforce-
€ 5.8 million (previous year: € 4.1 million) and expenses for  tax advisory services 0.0 0.0 ment examination carried out by the financial reporting 
depreciation and amortization of € 90.0 million in 2019  other services 0.0 0.0 enforcement panel (frep).
(previous year:€ 53.2 million).  total 1.7 2.0
09. related-party disclosures
07. headcount in 2019 the fees for audit services include services for the  the members of the management board and the super-
the dh group employs an average of 23,436 people in their  previous year of € 0.1 million. visory board were considered as related parties of 
continued and discontinued operations in the current finan- delivery hero se in accordance with ias 24. 
cial year (previous year: 19,834 employees). the distribution  audit services are provided for the audit of the  consolidated 
by employee groups is presented below: financial statements and statutory financial statements of  a) members of the management board
delivery hero se. integrated with the audit procedures, 
average number of employees by group reviews of interim financial statements were performed.  management board occupation
   niklas östberg chief executive officer
2019 2018
emmanuel thomassin  chief financial officer 
 
delivery and food processing 12,795 12,400
 
sales 6,625 4,697 b) members of the supervisory board 
marketing 591 549
business support 641 208 name  occupation other functions
dr. martin enderle  managing director of  egmont foundation (member of the board of trustees),
product development 1,149 794
chairman  allmyhomes gmbh cewe stiftung & co. kgaa (member of the board of trustees1),
administration 1,635 1,186 me gmbh (managing director),
chaconne gmbh (managing director),
total 23,436 19,834
feegoo invest ug (managing director1)
patrick kolek group chief operating   makemytrip ltd (member of the board of directors1)
total personnel expenses in 2019 for continued operations  deputy chairman officer of naspers limited
amounted to € 542.4 million (previous year: € 340.0 million) 
and discontinued operations amounted to € 18.4 million  hilary gosher managing director of   parity partners, llc (member of the board of directors1),
insight venture partners llc hustle, inc. (member of the board of directors)
(previous year: € 45.9 million).
björn ljungberg  employee at dh group
vera stachowiak  employee at dh group
christian graf   employee at dh group
von hardenberg
(since april 1, 2019)
1 ended during 2019
146
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
the mandate of semih yalcin in the supervisory board  the stock options granted to related parties are as follows: as of december 31, 2019 receivables and liabilities to  other 
 ended on april 1, 2019. his successor is christian graf von     related parties are composed as follows:
dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018 1
 hardenberg, chief technology officer at delivery hero.   
  eur million dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018
no. of shares owed 1,928,043 1,391,334
c) key management personnel transactions  
the members of the management board and the members  no. of vested shares  1,821,656 1,238,141 financing committment  
to associates – –
of the supervisory board represent key management  fair value (eur million) 32.0 21.5
 personnel.  expenses recognized   receivables from  
related  entities 0.3 0.2
(eur million) 8.4 1.8
the remuneration of the management board and the  receivables from associates – 0.4
1  to the members of the supervisory board no stock options were  
supervisory board in 2019 is as follows: granted in 2018.  liabilities to related entities – –
liabilities to associates – 0.3
   as of december 31, 2019, the total number of shares owed 
eur million 2019 2018
to members of the supervisory board amount to 244,207.  the result from transactions with other related parties is 
the number of vested shares to members of the super visory  composed as follows:
short-term employee benefits 1.4 1.0
board as of december 31, 2019, amount to 218,311. the fair   
expenses related to   value is € 3.0 million, of which € 0.9 million in expenses are  eur million 2019 2018
share-based compensation 1 8.4 1.8
recognized in 2019. in the financial year 2019, 7,381 new stock   
income from transactions 
1 for details see following illustration. options and 663 shares in form of rsu were granted under 
from related entities 0.1 0.6
the ltip in the total amount of € 0.1 million to members of 
expenses from transactions 
in 2019 the total remuneration of the management board  the supervisory board.
with related entities 3.6 0.0
amounts to € 0.7 million. the total remuneration of the 
supervisory board in 2019 amounts to € 0.7 million includ- d) other related-party transactions
ing the salary of employee representatives within the super- other related-party transactions comprise exchanges of dh  expenses from transactions with related entities are attrib-
visory board for the duration of their organ activity. the  group with related entities, primarily associated companies  utable to logistics and marketing services provided by 
expenses related to share-based compensation with regard  and entities controlled by key management p ersonnel. barogo co. ltd. in korea amounting to € 2.1 million. fur-
to the supervisory board member amount in 2019 to  ther, expenses of € 1.5 million relate to an asset transac-
€ 0.9 million (previous year € 0.0 million). tion in latin america with glovoapp chile spa, chile.
147
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
10.  lease relations and other financial obligations further amounts reflected in the consolidated statements  future cumulative obligations from other agreements 
the effect of initially applying ifrs 16 on the group’s lease  of profit and loss and other comprehensive income and  amount to € 29,1 million as of december 31, 2019 (previous 
agreements is described in note c. due to the transition  consolidated statement of cash flows are as follows:  year: € 8.3 million). the other agreements primarily relate 
method chosen, comparative information has not been     to server hosting and similar services.
restated. eur million   
  eur million dec. 31, 2019 dec. 31, 2018
the group leases predominantly office space including dark  2019 – leases under ifrs 16  
store space, vehicles and office equipment. during the  interest on lease liability –5.3 less than one year 14.5 2.8
reporting period several new lease agreements were  expenses relating to short–term leases –5.8 more than one year and  
less than five years 14.7 5.4
 concluded.  expenses relating to leases of  
low–value assets –0.8 more than five years 0.0 0.0
right-of-use assets recognized in the group’s consolidat- total cash outflow for leases –32.3 total 29.1 8.3
ed statement of financial positions evolved as follows:  
2018 – operating leases under ias 17
eur million 2019
lease expense –24.4
 
sub-lease income 0.3
balance at january 1, 2019   79.4
depreciation charge for the year –27.0
thereof buildings –20.5 some leases of buildings contain extension options exer-
cisable by dh. the group assesses at the lease commence-
 thereof vehicles and  
office equipment –6.5 ment whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the exten-
sion options. dh recognized lease liabilities of € 23.3 million 
additions to right-of-use assets 64.6
for leases that contain extension options. for such con-
derecognition of right-of-use 
assets –2.0 tracts the potential future lease payments (discounted) not 
included in the lease liabilities as of december 31, 2019 
 
balance at december 31, 2019 115.0 amounted to € 17.0 million.
thereof buildings 96.9
 thereof vehicles and office  
equipment 18.1
148
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
11. l ist of shareholdings pursuant to section 313   share of   share of  
of the german commercial code (hgb)   capitals as of   capitals as of  
name and registered office   dec. 31, 2019  functional   dec. 31, 2018  
dh’s interest in consolidated companies as of decem-
of the affiliated company (%) currency (%)
ber 31, 2019 is as follows:
valk fleet deutschland gmbh (formerly rushy 
logistik), berlin 100.00 eur
share of   share of  
  capitals as of   capitals as of   valk fleet holding gmbh & co. kg, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
name and registered office   dec. 31, 2019  functional   dec. 31, 2018  
valk fleet verwaltungs gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
of the affiliated company (%) currency (%)
 
 
international:  
germany:   appetito veinticuatro ltda., san jose (cr) 100.00 crc 100.00
brillant 1421. gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
aravo s.a., montevideo (uy) 100.00 uyu 100.00
delivery hero (hong kong) ug (haftungsbe-
schränkt) & co. kg (formerly jade 1343 gmbh &  baedaltong co. llc (formerly baedaltong co. 
co. 15. verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00 ltd.), seoul (kr) 100.00 krw 100.00
delivery hero (india) ug (haftungsbe- carriage delivery services llc, abu dhabi (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00
schränkt) & co. kg (formerly jade 1343 gmbh &  carriage holding company ltd., abu dhabi (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00
co. siebte verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
carriage saudi arabia llc, (formerly establish-
delivery hero (pakistan) ug (haftungsbe- ment of ab-dullah al mutawa (ksa), kuwait (kw) 100.00 sar 100.00
schränkt) & co. kg (formerly jade 1343 gmbh & 
carriage logistics spc, manama (bh) 100.00 bhd 100.00
co. neunte verwaltungs kg),  berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
carriage trading & services co. wll, doha (qa) 100.00 qar 100.00
delivery hero (philippines) ug (haftungsbe-
schränkt) & co. kg (formerlyjade 1343 gmbh &  clickdelivery s.a.c, lima (pe) 100.00 pen 100.00
co. 13. verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
clickdelivery s.a.s., bogota (co) 100.00 cop 100.00
delivery hero austria gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
cloud treats romania sa, cluj-napoca (rou) 100.00 ron 100.00
delivery hero kitchens holding gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
dámejídlo.cz. s.r.o. (formerly pizzatime s.r.o.), 
delivery hero local verwaltungs gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur prague (cz) 100.00 czk 100.00
delivery hero stores holding gmbh   dámejídlo.cz. logistiks s.r.o. (formerly valk 
(formerly foodora services germany gmbh),  fleet s.r.o.), prague (cz) 100.00 czk 100.00
berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
dark stores mena holding ltd., abu dhabi (uae) 100.00 aed
dh financial services holding gmbh  
delivery hero (cyprus) ltd. (formerly aa foody 
(formerly delivery hero payments gmbh), ber-
cyprus ltd.), nikosia (cyp) 100.00 eur
lin 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero (singapore) pte. ltd. (formerly 
foodpanda gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
foodpanda singapore pte. ltd.), singapore (sgp) 100.00 sgd 100.00
foodpanda gp ug (haftungsbeschränkt), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero (wantea singapore)  
jade 1343 gmbh & co. vierte verwaltungs kg,  pte ltd., singapore (sgp) 100.00 sgd
berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero apac pte. ltd., singapore (sgp) 100.00 sgd
juwel 220, vv ug (haftungsbeschränkt), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero bulgaria eood (formerly food-
rgp trust gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00 panda bulgaria eood), sofia (brg) 100.00 bgn 100.00
sweetheart kitchen operations gmbh, berlin 40.00 eur 100.00 delivery hero cambodia co. ltd. , phnom penh 
(khm) 100.00 usd
149
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
share of   share of   share of   share of  
  capitals as of   capitals as of     capitals as of   capitals as of  
name and registered office   dec. 31, 2019  functional   dec. 31, 2018   name and registered office   dec. 31, 2019  functional   dec. 31, 2018  
of the affiliated company (%) currency (%) of the affiliated company (%) currency (%)
delivery hero carriage db llc (formerly car- dhh i spc (difc) ltd., dubai (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00
riage food delivery services llc), dubai (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00
dhh ii spc (difc) ltd., dubai (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00
delivery hero carriage egypt llc,  
donesi d.o.o., banja luka (bih) 100.00 bam 100.00
cairo (egy) 100.00 egp
delivery hero carriage kuwait for delivery of 
donesi d.o.o., podgorica (mne) 100.00 eur 100.00
consumables llc (formerly carriage logistics 
general trading company llc), kuwait (kw) 100.00 kwd 100.00 eatoye (pvt) limited, karachi (pk) 100.00 pkr 100.00
delivery hero finland oy (formerly   ecommerce business 10 s.à r.l.,  luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
slm finland oy), helsinki (fi) 100.00 eur 100.00
emerging markets online food delivery hold-
delivery hero fz-llc, dubai (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00 ing s.à r.l., luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero hungary kft   fly&company llc (formerly  
(formerly viala kf), budapest (hu) 100.00 huf 100.00 fly & company inc.), seoul (kr) 100.00 krw 100.00
delivery hero india holding s.à r.l.,  food basket elektronik i̇letişim gıda ticaret 
 luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00 ltd. şti, nikosia (cyp) 100.00 try 100.00
delivery hero korea llc   food delivery holding 12. s.à r.l.,  luxembourg 
(formerly rgp korea ltd.), seoul (kr) 100.00 krw 100.00 (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero lao sole co. ltd., lao (la) 100.00 lak food delivery holding 15. s.à r.l.,  luxembourg 
(lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero lebanon sarl, beirut (lbn) 100.00 lbp
food delivery holding 20. s.à r.l.,  luxembourg 
delivery hero myanmar co. ltd., yangon (mmr) 100.00 mmk
(lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero stores (singapore) pte. ltd., 
food delivery holding 21. s.à r.l.,  luxembourg 
 singapore (sgp) 100.00 sgd
(lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero stores apac holding pte. ltd., 
food delivery holding 5. s.à r.l.,  luxembourg 
 singapore (sgp) 100.00 sgd
(lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero stores db llc, dubai (uae) 100.00 aed
food panda philippines inc., makati (phl) 100.00 php 100.00
delivery hero sweden ab (formerly online pizza 
foodonclick.com/jordan private  shareholding 
norden ab), stockholm (se) 100.00 sek 100.00
company, amman (jr) 100.00 jod 100.00
delivery hero talabat db llc (formerly talabat 
foodonclick-com fz-llc, dubai (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00
services company l.l.c.), dubai (uae) 100.00 bhd 100.00
foodora ab, stockholm (se) 100.00 sek 100.00
delivery hero thailand co. ltd. (formerly 
 foodpanda co. ltd.), bangkok (tha) 100.00 thb 100.00 foodora finland oy (formerly r-sc internet 
services finland oy) helsinki, (fi) 100.00 eur 100.00
dh ssc malaysia sdn. bhd, kuala lumpur (mys) 100.00 myr
foodora france sas, paris (fra) 100.00 eur 100.00
dh stores (taiwan) co. ltd.,  
daan dist taipei (twn) 100.00 twd foodora inc. (canada), toronto (can) 100.00 cad 100.00
dhe logistics malaysia sdn. bhd,   foodora norway as, oslo (nor) 100.00 nok 100.00
kuala lumpur (mys) 80.00 myr 100.00
150
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
share of   share of   share of   share of  
  capitals as of   capitals as of     capitals as of   capitals as of  
name and registered office   dec. 31, 2019  functional   dec. 31, 2018   name and registered office   dec. 31, 2019  functional   dec. 31, 2018  
of the affiliated company (%) currency (%) of the affiliated company (%) currency (%)
foodpanda (b) sdn bhd, bandar seri  begawan  pagos ya s.a., buenos aires (ar) 100.00 ars 100.00
(brn) 100.00 bnd 100.00
pedidos ya paraguay s.a., asunción (py) 100.00 pyg 100.00
foodpanda bangladesh ltd., dhaka (bgd) 100.00 bdt 100.00
pedidosya s.a. (formerly kinboy s.a.), montevi-
foodpanda malaysia sdn. bhd., kuala lumpur  deo (uy) 100.00 usd 100.00
(mys) 100.00 myr 100.00
pedidosya s.a., buenos aires (ar) 100.00 ars 100.00
foodpanda ro srl, bucharest (ro) 100.00 ron 100.00
pedidosya servicios s.a., santa cruz  
foodpanda taiwan co. ltd.,   de la sierra (bol) 100.00 bob 100.00
daan dist taipei (twn) 100.00 twd 100.00
pedidosya spa, santiago (cl) 100.00 clp 100.00
go delivery sa, attica (gr) 100.00 eur 100.00
plotun d.o.o., belgrade (srb) 100.00 rsd 100.00
hungerstation llc, dammam (ksa) 63.00 sar 63.00
ranila online services limited,  
hungerstation spc ltd., dubai (uae) 63.00 aed 63.00 new delhi (ind) 100.00 inr 100.00
hungry delivery ab, lund (se) 100.00 sek repartos ya s.a, buenos aires (ar) 100.00 ars 100.00
inversiones cmr s.a.s, bogota (co) 100.00 cop 100.00 repartos ya s.a, montevideo, (uy) 100.00 uyu 100.00
inversiones delivery hero cmr s.a.   restaurangonline sverige ab, lund (se) 100.00 sek
(formerly hellofood hallo essen  
rocket food limited, sheung wan (hk) 100.00 hkd 100.00
hollesen s.a.), quito (ec) 100.00 usd 100.00
r-sc internet services pakistan (pvt) limited, 
lokanta net elektronik i̇letişim gıda ticaret 
karachi (pk) 100.00 pkr 100.00
a.ş., istanbul (tr) 100.00 try 100.00
stores services kuwait s.p.c., kuwait (kw) 100.00 kwd
maidan limited, hong kong (hk) 100.00 hkd 100.00
sweetheart kitchen holding (difc), dubai (uae) 60.00 aed
mjam gmbh, vienna (at) 100.00 eur 100.00
sweetheart kitchen kuwait company, kuwait 
mobile venture latin america inc.,  panama (pa) 100.00 usd 100.00
(kw) 60.00 kwd
motwer s.a., montevideo (uy) 100.00 uyu 100.00
sweetheart kitchen llc, dubai (uae) 60.00 aed
movil media s.r.l., santo domingo (dom) 100.00 dop
sweetheart kitchen operations  
ofd online food delivery services ltd., nicosia  singapore pte ltd., singapore (sgp) 60.00 sgd
(cyp) 100.00 eur 100.00
sweetheart kitchen saudi arabia  
online delivery promotion of internet services  limited, kuwait (kw) 100.00 sar
société anonyme, attica (gr) 100.00 eur 100.00
talabat electronic and delivery services llc. 
otlob for restaurants reservations  services  (formerly talabat electronic services company 
s.a.e, cairo (egy) 100.00 egp 100.00 l.l.c.), al khuwair (om) 100.00 omr 100.00
ozon media d.o.o., zagreb (hr) 100.00 hrk 100.00
151
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
share of   share of   i. subsequent events
  capitals as of   capitals as of  
name and registered office   dec. 31, 2019  functional   dec. 31, 2018  
placement of convertible bond and new shares 
of the affiliated company (%) currency (%)
on january 15, 2020, delivery hero placed two tranches 
talabat general trading & contracting com-
(“tranche a” and “tranche b”) of senior, unsecured 
pany w.l.l, sharq (kw) 100.00 kwd 100.00
 convertible bonds maturing in january 2024 (tranche a) 
talabat logistics & online   
and january 2027 (tranche b) in a principal amount of 
management llc, amman (jr) 100.00 jod 100.00
€ 875 million (tranche a) and € 875 million (tranche b), 
talabat ltd., kuwait (kw) 100.00 kwd 100.00
divided into 17,500 bonds in a nominal amount of 
talabat middle east internet services company 
€ 100,000 each (the “convertible bonds”). the convert-
l.l.c, dubai (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00
ible bonds are initially convertible into approximately 
talabat qfc llc, doha (qa) 100.00 qar 100.00
17.9 million new or existing ordinary no-par value regis-
talabat restaurants company l.l.c. riyadh (ksa) 100.00 sar 100.00 tered shares of delivery hero.
talabat services company l.l.c. doha (qa) 100.00 qar 100.00
volo netherlands b.v., amsterdam (nl) 100.00 eur 100.00 the convertible bonds will be issued at 100% of their nom-
inal value and with a semiannually payable coupon of 
yemek sepeti (dubai) b.v., amsterdam (nl) 100.00 eur 100.00
0.25% p.a. (tranche a) and 1.00% p.a. (tranche b). the 
yemek sepeti elektronik i̇letişim tanıtım 
pazarlama gıda sanayi ve ticaret a.ş.,    initial conversion price amounts to € 98.00 (tranche a) 
istanbul (tr) 100.00 try 100.00 and € 98.00 (tranche b), representing a conversion 
yogiyo media company ltd., seoul (kr) 100.00 krw 100.00  premium of 40.00% (tranche a) and 40.00% (tranche b) 
above the reference price of € 70.00 (placement price of 
the concurrent share offering). the convertible bonds have 
been placed solely to institutional investors in  certain 
the following companies were included as associates in  12. corporate governance code  jurisdictions via a private placement. shareholders’ sub-
the dh consolidated financial statements: the management and supervisory boards of delivery   scription rights were excluded. the convertible bonds 
hero se have issued a statement of conformity pursuant  are trading on the non-regulated open market segment 
share of capital  to the german corporate governance code (section 161 of  ( freiverkehr) of the frankfurt stock exchange.
name and registered office of the  december 31, 2019 
the german stock corporation act [aktg]) in the version 
 associated company (%)
 dated february 7, 2017, which was published on the web- delivery hero is entitled to redeem the convertible bonds 
hungry holding aps (dk) 24.50
site of delivery hero se in december 2019 (https://ir. at any time (i) on or after february 13, 2023 (tranche a) 
nosh services (ky) 21.80 delivery hero.com/websites/delivery/english/4500/  and february 13, 2025 (tranche b), if the stock exchange 
bio-lutions international ag (de) 20.16 declaration-of-compliance.html). price per delivery hero share amounts to at least 130% 
rappi inc. (co) 13.97 (tranche a) or 150% (tranche b) of the then relevant con-
version price over a certain period or (ii) if 15% or less of 
glovoapp23 s.l. (es) 12.70
the aggregate principal amount of the relevant tranche of 
the convertible bonds remain outstanding.
152
consolidated financial statements 
annual report 2019
further, delivery hero increased its current share capital  the objective of the transaction is to provide downside  break, the effectiveness of public health measures and sup-
by approximately 4.3%, from € 188,775,039 to € 196,933,589,  protection on, and some limited upside exposure to, the  portive macro economic measures. adverse business effects 
through the exercise of its authorized capital. share- value of the underlying just eat takeaway.com shares. may be  compensated by the acquisition of new customers 
holders’ subscription rights were excluded. the 8,158,550  as well as new restaurants that come to appreciate an on- 
new no-par value ordinary registered shares have been  acquisition of honest food company gmbh demand delivery service for their food supply and as an 
placed with institutional investors at a placement price of  on february 28, 2020, the dh group acquired 100% of the  additional distribution channel, respectively, in this crisis 
€ 70.00 per new share by way of an accelerated book- share capital of honest food company gmbh,  germany  and beyond. however, the financial effect from the global 
building. the new shares carry full dividend rights as of  through its fully owned subsidiary delivery hero kitchens  coronavirus outbreak on the group’s financial position, 
january 1, 2019. gmbh for a purchase price consideration of € 19.6 million.  result and cash flows cannot be estimated as of this date.
the acquired net assets amount to € 5.4 million. the  entity 
the company received gross proceeds amounting to   produces food in centralized kitchens, which is sold to end 
€ 1.75 billion from the convertible bonds and € 571 million  customers via virtual restaurants through online platforms. 
from the capital increase. the proceeds are intended  the acquisition represents a strategic investment into  berlin, april 22, 2020
to be used to finance a portion of the cash component of   virtual kitchen concepts. the acquired shares represent all 
the consideration for the purchased shares in woowa  of the voting rights. delivery hero se
 brothers corp., and for general corporate p urposes.
global coronavirus outbreak
forward share purchase and multi-year   subsequent to december 31, 2019, on march 11, 2020 the 
collar agreement world health organization (who) officially declared the 
on february 12, 2020, the company decided to enter into  coronavirus outbreak a global pandemic after it had spread 
a forward share purchase and multi-year equity  collar  to more than a hundred countries with accelerating infec-  
agreement to restore its exposure in just eat takeaway. tions outside of china.1 the outbreak may have a severe   
com n.v. (“just eat takeaway.com”) to approximately 10.6%  impact on the global economy. public measures to  control   
following the dilution that had been caused by the  merger  the outbreak of the virus may result, among other things,   
between takeaway.com and just eat plc. in broad restrictions to restaurant operations, including  niklas östberg  emmanuel thomassin 
temporary closure of restaurants, as well as curfews in  chief executive officer  chief financial officer
delivery hero will purchase 8.4 million additional just eat   cities and countries. the effects of the pandemic are also 
takeaway.com shares by entering into a forward purchase  affecting global financial markets as investors disinvest 
agreement with a financial institution, which will be  from company stocks and other financial assets in favor of 
 entirely financed by a multi-year equity collar transaction  cash assets, which might adversely affect the measurement 
over approximately 8.8 million just eat takeaway.com  of our financial engagements into listed and non-listed 
shares that also includes approximately 0.4 million shares  investments. the global impact as well as the impact on 
that delivery hero had received in connection with the  our business operations in 2020 are contingent on many 
sale of its german food delivery businesses to takeaway. aspects, including the duration and intensity of the out-
com on april 1, 2019. as such, no negative impact on 
delivery hero's cash balance is expected from the trans-
action. 
1   www.who.int/dg/speeches/detail/who-director-general-s-opening-remarks-at-
the-media-briefing-on-covid-19---11-march-2020
153
responsibility statement
annual report 2019
responsibility
statement
we hereby confirm that, to the best of our knowledge and 
in accordance with the applicable principles, the consoli-
dated financial statements give a true and fair view of the 
assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the 
group, and the combined management report includes a 
fair review of the group’s business development including 
its performance and financial position, and also describes 
significant opportunities and risks relating to the group’s 
anticipated development. 
berlin, april 22, 2020
delivery hero se
niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin
chief executive officer  chief financial officer
154
independent auditorʼs report 
annual report 2019
independent
auditorʼs report
to delivery hero se, berlin in our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in 
the audit,
report on the audit of the consolidated 
financial statements and of the combined  —   the accompanying consolidated financial statements 
management report comply, in all material respects, with the ifrss as 
adopted by the eu, and the additional requirements 
opinions of german commercial law pursuant to section 
we have audited the consolidated financial statements of  315e (1) hgb [handelsgesetzbuch: german commer-
delivery hero se berlin, and its subsidiaries (the group),  cial code] and, in compliance with these require-
which comprise the consolidated statement of financial  ments, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabili-
position as of december 31, 2019, the consolidated state- ties and financial position of the group as of 
ment of profit or loss and other comprehensive income,  december 31, 2019, and of its financial performance 
the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the  for the financial year from january 1 to december 31, 
consolidated statement of cash flows for the financial year  2019, and
from january 1 to december 31, 2019, and notes to the con- —   the accompanying combined management report as 
solidated financial statements, including a summary of  a whole provides an appropriate view of the group's 
significant accounting policies. in addition, we have  position. in all material respects, this combined man-
audited the combined management report of delivery   agement report is consistent with the consolidated 
hero se, berlin, for the financial year from january 1 to  financial statements, complies with german legal 
december 31, 2019. in accordance with german legal  requirements and appropriately presents the oppor-
requirements, we have not audited the content of the com- tunities and risks of future development.
ponents of the combined management report mentioned 
in the section “other information” of our audit opinion.  our opinion on the combined management report does 
not cover the section “other information”.
155
independent auditorʼs report 
annual report 2019
pursuant to section 322 (3) sentence 1 hgb, we declare that  from january 1 to december 31, 2019. these matters were  based on the impairment tests conducted, the company 
our audit has not led to any reservations relating to the  addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated  did not identify any need to recognize impairment losses. 
legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements  financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opin-
and of the combined management report. ion thereon, we do not provide a separate opinion on these  impairment testing is complex and based on a range of 
matters. assumptions that require judgment. this includes the 
basis for the opinions expected business and earnings development of the cgus/
we conducted our audit of the consolidated financial state-    impairment of intangible assets arising  groups of cgus for the next five years, the modelling of 
ments and of the combined management report in accor- from acquisitions including goodwill estimated sustainable surplus cash flow, the assumed long-
dance with section 317 hgb and eu audit regulation  term growth rates and the discount rate used. 
no 537/2014 (referred to subsequently as “eu audit regu- for information on impairment of intangible assets arising 
lation”) and in compliance with german generally accepted  from acquisitions including goodwill, please see sections  there is the risk for the financial statements that any exist-
standards for financial statement audits promulgated by  b.05 and f.01 in the notes to the consolidated financial  ing impairment of goodwill as of the reporting date was 
the institut der wirtschaftsprüfer [institute of public audi- statements. not identified. as regards the explanations in the notes to 
tors in germany] (idw). our responsibilities under those  the consolidated financial statements, there is a risk that 
requirements and principles are further described in the  the financial statement risk the explanations are not appropriate.
“auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated  intangible assets arising from acquisitions including good-
financial statements and of the combined management  will (trademarks, customer and supplier relationships,  our audit approach
report” section of our auditor’s report. we are independent  goodwill) amounted to eur 1,011.8 million as of decem- we evaluated the company's assessment of whether there 
of the group entities in accordance with the requirements  ber 31, 2019, which represents 37.8% of total assets and  were indications of impairment for significant intangible 
of european law and german commercial and professional  thus a considerable share of asset value. assets arising from acquisitions.
law, and we have fulfilled our other german professional 
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. in  intangible assets are tested for impairment if there are  for the purposes of impairment testing of goodwill, we 
addition, in accordance with article 10 (2)(f) of the eu audit  indications that their value has declined. as well as this,  calculated our own estimates for the cgus/groups of cgus 
regulation, we declare that we have not provided non- audit  cash generating units (cgus)/groups of cgus to which  of the delivery hero se group with the involvement of our 
services prohibited under article 5 (1) of the eu audit reg- goodwill has been allocated are subject to an annual  valuation experts and based on general as well as sec-
ulation. we believe that the evidence we have obtained is  impairment test.  tor-specific market expectations and compared these esti-
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opin- mates with the company's measurements. 
ions on the consolidated financial statements and on the  to test for impairment, the carrying amount of the respec-
combined management report. tive cgu/group of cgus is compared with the recoverable 
amount. if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable 
key audit matters in the audit of the consolidated  amount, this indicates a requirement for impairment. the 
financial statements recoverable amount is the higher of the cgu/group of 
key audit matters are those matters that, in our profes- cgus’ fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. the 
sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of  reporting date for impairment testing is november 30, 
the consolidated financial statements for the financial year  2019.
156
independent auditorʼs report 
annual report 2019
in addition, we assessed the appropriateness of the calcu- our observations in connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read 
lation method used by the company and reconciled this  the underlying approach to impairment testing of intan- the other information and, in so doing, to consider wheth-
information with the budget prepared by the management  gible assets arising from acquisitions including goodwill  er the other information
board and approved by the supervisory board. further- (including the calculation method) is appropriate and in 
more, we evaluated the consistency of assumptions with  line with the accounting policies to be applied. —   is materially inconsistent with the consolidated 
external market assessments.  financial statements, with the combined manage-
the company's assumptions and parameters used for  ment report information audited for content or our 
we evaluated the accuracy of the previous forecasts by   measurement are reasonable overall. knowledge obtained in the audit, or
comparing the budgets of previous financial years with  —  otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
actual results and by analyzing deviations.  the related disclosures in the notes are appropriate.
responsibilities of management and the supervisory 
since changes to the discount rate can have a significant  other information board for the consolidated financial statements and  
impact on the results of impairment testing, we compared  management is responsible for the other information. the  the combined management report
the assumptions and parameters underlying the discount  other information comprises: management is responsible for the preparation of consol-
rate, in particular the risk-free rate, the cgu-specific risk  idated financial statements that comply, in all material 
premium and the beta coefficient, with our own assump- —   the group's non-financial statement and the  respects, with ifrss as adopted by the eu and the addi-
tions and publicly available data.   corporate governance statement,  tional requirements of german commercial law pursuant 
—   the corporate governance report, and to section 315e (1) hgb and that the consolidated financial 
to ensure the computational accuracy of the valuation  —   the remaining parts of the annual report, with the  statements, in compliance with these requirements, give 
model used, we verified the company's calculations on the  exception of the audited consolidated financial state- a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial posi-
basis of selected risk-based elements. ments, the combined management report informa- tion and financial performance of the group. in addition, 
tion audited for content and our auditor's report.  management is responsible for such internal control as 
finally, we assessed whether the disclosures in the notes  they have determined necessary to enable the preparation 
on the impairment of intangible assets arising from acqui- our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and  of consolidated financial statements that are free from 
sitions including goodwill were appropriate. on the combined management report do not cover the  material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
other information, and consequently we do not express 
an opinion or any other form of assurance conclusion 
thereon. 
157
independent auditorʼs report 
annual report 2019
in preparing the consolidated financial statements, man- auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the  we exercise professional judgment and maintain profes-
agement is responsible for assessing the group’s ability to   consolidated financial statements and of the   sional skepticism throughout the audit. we also:
continue as a going concern. they also have the responsi- combined management report
bility for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going  our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about  —   identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
concern. in addition, they are responsible for financial  whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole  of the consolidated financial statements and of the 
reporting based on the going concern basis of accounting  are free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud  combined management report, whether due to fraud 
unless there is an intention to liquidate the group or to  or error, and whether the combined management report  or error, design and perform audit procedures 
cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to  as a whole provides an appropriate view of the group's  responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
do so. position and, in all material respects, is consistent with the  that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
consolidated financial statements and the knowledge  for our opinions. the risk of not detecting a material 
furthermore, management is responsible for the prepara- obtained in the audit, complies with the german legal  misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
tion of the combined management report that, as a whole,  requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities  one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collu-
provides an appropriate view of the group's position and  and risks of future development, as well as to issue an  sion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresenta-
is, in all material respects, consistent with the consolidated  auditor's report that includes our opinions on the consol- tions, or the override of internal controls.
financial statements, complies with german legal require- idated financial statements and on the combined manage- —   obtain an understanding of internal control relevant 
ments, and appropriately presents the opportunities and  ment report. to the audit of the consolidated financial statements 
risks of future development. in addition, management is  and of arrangements and measures (systems) rele-
responsible for such arrangements and measures (systems)  reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is  vant to the audit of the combined management 
as they have considered necessary to enable the prepara- not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance  report in order to design audit procedures that are 
tion of a combined management report that is in accor- with section 317 hgb and the eu audit regulation and in  appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the pur-
dance with the applicable german legal requirements, and  compliance with german generally accepted standards for  pose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of 
to be able to provide sufficient appropriate evidence for  financial statement audits promulgated by the institut der  these systems.
the assertions in the combined management report. wirtschaftsprüfer (idw) will always detect a material mis- —   evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies 
statement. misstatements can arise from fraud or error  used by management and the reasonableness of esti-
the supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the  and are considered material if, individually or in the aggre- mates made by management and related disclosures.
group's financial reporting process for the preparation of  gate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the  —   conclude on the appropriateness of management's 
the consolidated financial statements and of the combined  economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these  use of the going concern basis of accounting and, 
management report. consolidated financial statements and this combined man- based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a 
agement report. material uncertainty exists related to events or condi-
tions that may cast significant doubt on the group's 
ability to continue as a going concern. if we conclude 
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to 
158
independent auditorʼs report 
annual report 2019
draw attention in the auditor's report to the related  —   evaluate the consistency of the combined manage- we also provide those charged with governance with a 
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements  ment report with the consolidated financial state- statement that we have complied with the relevant inde-
and in the combined management report or, if such  ments, its conformity with [german] law, and the  pendence requirements, and communicate with them all 
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our respective  view of the group's position it provides. relationships and other matters that may reasonably be 
opinions. our conclusions are based on the audit evi- —   perform audit procedures on the prospective infor- thought to bear on our independence, and where applica-
dence obtained up to the date of our auditor's  mation presented by management in the combined  ble, the related safeguards.
report. however, future events or conditions may  management report. on the basis of sufficient appro-
cause the group to cease to be able to continue as a  priate audit evidence we evaluate, in particular, the  from the matters communicated with those charged with 
going concern. significant assumptions used by management as a  governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
—   evaluate the overall presentation, structure and con- basis for the prospective information, and evaluate  significance in the audit of the consolidated financial state-
tent of the consolidated financial statements, includ- the proper derivation of the prospective information  ments of the current period and are therefore the key audit 
ing the disclosures, and whether the consolidated  from these assumptions. we do not express a sepa- matters. we describe these matters in our auditor's report 
financial statements present the underlying transac- rate opinion on the prospective information and on  unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about 
tions and events in a manner that the consolidated  the assumptions used as a basis. there is a substan- the matter.
financial statements give a true and fair view of the  tial unavoidable risk that future events will differ 
assets, liabilities, financial position and financial per- materially from the prospective information.
formance of the group in compliance with ifrss as 
adopted by the eu and the additional requirements  we communicate with those charged with governance 
of german commercial law pursuant to section 315e  regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
(1) hgb. timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including 
—   obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regard- any significant deficiencies in internal control that we iden-
ing the financial information of the entities or busi- tify during our audit.
ness activities within the group to express opinions 
on the consolidated financial statements and on the 
combined management report. we are responsible 
for the direction, supervision and performance of the 
group audit. we remain solely responsible for our 
opinions.
159
independent auditorʼs report 
annual report 2019
other legal and regulatory    german public auditor responsible  
requirements for the engagement
further information pursuant to article 10 of the   the german public auditor responsible for the engage-
eu audit regulation ment is björn knorr.
we were elected as group auditor at the annual general 
meeting on june 12, 2019. we were engaged by the super- berlin, april 22, 2020
visory board on november 18, 2019. we have been the group 
auditor of delivery hero se as a capital market-oriented 
company without interruption since financial year 2017. kpmg ag  
wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
we declare that the opinions expressed in this auditor's 
report are consistent with the additional report to the audit 
committee pursuant to article 11 of the eu audit regulation 
(long-form audit report). [signature] knorr   [signature] heidgen 
wirtschaftsprüfer  wirtschaftsprüfer 
[german public auditor]  [german public auditor]
160
gri content index 
annual report 2019
gri content index 
gri standard  disclosure comment page
 
gri 101: foundation 2016
gri 102: general disclosures 2016
102-1 name of the organization delivery hero se
102-2 activities, brands, products and services 59–60
102-3 location of headquarters berlin
102-4 location of operations 7, 59–60
102-5 ownership and legal form 25, 59
102-6 markets served 7
102-7 scale of the organization 2–5, 7, 14, 66
102-8 information on employees and other workers 71
102-9 supply chain 50
102-10 significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 8–11, 14
delivery hero is occasionally engaged in ad-hoc initiatives with other industry  
102-12 external initiatives players to safeguard its interests, e.g., in case of new legislative initiatives.
delivery hero se is a member of one business association, which represents  
102-13 membership of associations delivery hero´s interests in various areas of delivery hero´s commercial activities.
102-14 statement from senior decisionmaker 22–23, 46
102-16 values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 47, 55
102-18 governance structure 25–28
consulting stakeholders on economic,  
102-21 environmental and social topics 50–51
102-40 list of stakeholder groups 51
102-41 collective bargaining agreements the company has no collective bargaining agreements. 
161
gri content index 
annual report 2019
gri standard  disclosure comment page
 
102-42 identifying and selecting stakeholders 50
102-43 approach to stakeholder engagement 50
102-44 key topics and concerns raised 50–51
102-45 entities included in the consolidated financial statements 106–112
102-46 defining report content and topic boundaries 48–50, 57
102-47 list of material topics 50
102-48 restatements of information 49–50
102-49 changes in reporting 49–50
102-50 reporting period january 1, 2019–december 31, 2019
102-51 date of most recent report april 26, 2019 
102-52 reporting cycle annually
102-53 contact point for questions regarding the report ir@deliveryhero.com
102-54 claims of reporting in accordance with the gri standards 57
102-55 gri content index 161–163
102-56 external assurance delivery hero’s non-financial report has not been externally audited.
gri 205: anti-corruption 2016
103-1/ 
103-2/103-3 management approach  24, 55
205-1  operations assessed for risks related to corruption 55
162
gri content index 
annual report 2019
gri standard  disclosure comment page
 
gri 206: anti-competitive behavior 2016
103-1/ 
103-2/103-3 management approach  23–24, 76–79
legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust,  
206-1  and monopoly practices 76–79
gri 301: materials 2016
103-1/ 
103-2/103-3 management approach 52
gri 305: emissions 2016   
103-1/ 
103-2/103-3 management approach 52
gri 401: employment 2016     
103-1/ 
103-2/103-3 management approach 53–54
gri 403: occupational health and safety 2018     
103-1/ 
103-2/103-3 management approach 55
gri 405: diversity and equal opportunity 2016     
103-1/ 
103-2/103-3 management approach 54
405-1 diversity of governance bodies and employees 25–29, 54
gri 418: customer privacy 2016   
103-1/ 
103-2/103-3 management approach 56
163
further information
annual report 2019
further  
information
financial calendar page 165
imprint page 165
disclaimer page 167
164
further information
annual report 2019
financial calendar 2020
 
2020 annual general meeting     june 18, 2020
q2/2020 quarterly statement      july 30, 2020
half-year 2020 report       aug. 27, 2020
q3/2020 quarterly statement    oct. 28, 2020
publisher imprint
delivery hero se press  investor relations  realization 
oranienburger strasse 70 delivery hero se delivery hero se kirchhoff consult ag 
10117 berlin, germany oranienburger strasse 70 oranienburger strasse 70 hamburg, germany
phone: +49 (0)30 5444 59 024 10117 berlin, germany 10117 berlin, germany www.kirchhoff.de
e-mail: ir@deliveryhero.com
hrb 187081 b1 e-mail: info@deliveryhero.com e-mail: ir@deliveryhero.com
165
further information
annual report 2019
make your own experience 
linkedin.com/company/delivery-hero-se
xing.com/companies/deliveryherose
facebook.com/deliveryhero
instagram.com/deliveryhero
twitter.com/deliveryherocom
www.deliveryhero.com
166
further information
annual report 2019
disclaimer
this information also contains forward-looking statements. these statements are 
based on the current view, expectations and assumptions of the management of 
delivery hero se (“delivery hero”). such statements are subject to known and 
unknown risks and uncertainties that are beyond delivery heroʼs control or accurate 
estimates, such as the future market environment and the economic, legal and 
regulatory framework, the conduct of the realization of expected synergy effects, 
as well as measures by public authorities. if any of these or other uncertainties and 
imponderables materialize, or if the assumptions on which these statements are 
based proven to be incorrect, actual results could differ materially from those 
expressed or implied by such statements. delivery hero does not warrant or assume 
any liability that the future development and future actual results will be consistent 
with the assumptions and estimates expressed in this report. delivery hero does 
not intend or assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements to 
reflect events or developments after the date of this report, except as required by 
law. 
167
always delivering amazing experiences.
oranienburger strasse 70
10117 berlin
germany
phone: +49 (0)30 5444 59 000
e-mail: info@deliveryhero.com
www.deliveryhero.com