
on a
mission
to create an amazing 
takeaway experience
annual report 2017
delivery hero  performance 2017  annual report 2017
delivery hero 
 performance 2017
group europe mena 
revenues +60%   revenues +36% revenues +87%
€544m €199m €153m
to  to  to 
orders (million) orders (million) orders (million)
2017 292 2017 73 2017 123
2016 197 2016 57 2016 75
gmv (eur million) gmv (eur million) gmv (eur million)
2017 3,824 2017 1,161 2017 1,370
2016 2,618 2016 900 2016 900 869
2 revenues (eur million) revenues (eur million) revenues (eur million)
2017 544 2017 199 2017 153
2016 341 2016 147 2016 82
adj. ebitda (eur million) adj. ebitda (eur million) adj. ebitda (eur million)
2017 –94 2017 –46 2017 24
2016 –116 2016 –49 2016 18
asia  americas
revenues +66%  revenues +91%
€145m €47m
to  to 
orders (million) orders (million)
2017 68 2017 28
2016 45 2016 20
gmv (eur million) gmv (eur million)
2017 924 2017 370
2016 617 2016 232
revenues (eur million) revenues (eur million)
2017 145 2017 47
2016 87 2016 25
all information is presented on “like-for-like” basis
loifk efo-foodr-pliakned par ehsaedn otsc cduerlrievedr oy nh jearnou’sa croy m1,p 2a0ra1t6iv aen 2d0 e1x6c rluedsuelst sc oans tirf itbhuet iaocnqsu firsoitmio n    adj. ebitda (eur million) adj. ebitda (eur million)
operations reported in discontinued operations. furthermore asia kpis exclude our  2017 –47 2017 –25
former operations in china, which were sold in may 2016. 2016 –66 2016 –20
on  a  mission  annual report 2017
on  a 
 mission
our mission has always been clear; to provide an amazing 
takeaway experience, creating joyful moments and connecting 
people with great food. letter from the ceo page 04
who we are page 08
since we started delivery hero we have been transforming  
the way people order food. by offering choice, convenience, 
creating an amazing takeaway experience page 18
reliability and quality, we have become the easiest way for  
3
our customers to discover and order food online.  report of the supervisory board page 33
corporate governance report page 38
today delivery hero is one of the world’s leading online  
food ordering and delivery marketplace. join us in this  
nonfinancial statement for the group page 61
fascinating long-term growth story. 
the delivery hero share page 70
combined management report page 72
consolidated financial statements page 102
responsibility statement page 160
independent auditor’s report page 161
try out our interactive table of contents.   further information page 168
you will be directed to the selected page.
letter from the ceo  annual report 2017
hi.
niklas östberg  
chief executive officer/co-founder
4
letter from the ceo  annual report 2017
my  
motivation
dear shareholders, colleagues, and readers
serving  
2017 was an incredible year for us. we served 292 million orders and extended our global market leadership, 
while achieving revenue growth of 60%. these numbers are the result of many milestones, big and small.  292 million  
below are some that stand out in particular. 
orders
during the first months of last year we integrated foodpanda into the delivery hero group. their team and   
business assets are a great addition to the group, strengthening our position in asia and middle east. 
we welcomed carriage – a kuwait-based, own-delivery focused company – to our business. their team has 
 surpassed even our high expectations and again proves our strength of supporting local founders and 
management teams to further build out our leadership, in this case across the mena region. 
5
besides these organizational changes, we were happy to gain naspers as a long-term shareholder and
supervisory board member, who shares our ambitious vision of food ordering.
we built on this in june with the initial public offering of delivery hero shares on the frankfurt stock exchange, 
marking a milestone in our development process from start-up to world-leading organization. i am truly proud 
of what the team at delivery hero has built and am happy to see that many new shareholders have committed 
to our vision – leading to a strong trading start. for me personally, the ipo was more of a starting point than a 
goal achieved. we are now in a strong economic position to continue pursuing our vision of creating amazing 
takeaway experiences to give joyful moments for our customers.
the strong focus on our customers’ experiences should of course also be reflected in our financial and 
 operational results. we are proud to have: 
— increased revenues by 60%,
— increased orders by 48% and gross merchandise volume (gmv) by 46%,
— improved our adjusted ebitda margin from –34% (2016) to –17% (2017) on a like-for-like basis.
as rewarding as looking back to our achievements from 2017, at delivery hero our minds are focused  
on the future. as this is my first letter to shareholders, the below outlines how i envision delivery hero to  
develop over the coming years and some of the principles by which we operate, in order to allow you to better 
understand the company.
letter from the ceo  annual report 2017
as the market for food ordering is maturing, shifting online and improving in service quality, there is still  
enormous potential for growth. even in the more mature markets we operate, the combination of online shift 
significant  
and increased user frequency is going to continue drive our growth for many, many years to come. i see it as 
paramount that we continue to invest in shaping this development and create the best possible experience for  growth  
our customers. the main criteria by which we e valuate our success is our continued order and gmv growth, 
increasing customer satisfaction, and being the preferred platform for food ordering – all of these are key  opportunity  
 indicators we constantly obsess about as a company and management team. 
for many  
to achieve the above we continue to focus on four main pillars:  years to come
our organization: as the company grows, the responsibility to take good decisions rests on more and more 
people. it is of great importance for me that delivery hero is able to attract and retain the best people who  
6 can stand up to this challenge. one important aspect of delivery hero are the many founders of our b usinesses 
across the world who have joined our group and are excited to  continue shaping it. we have built an 
 environment where we foster this ownership mentality of local management teams while investing in building 
excellent central support structures to get the best of both worlds: world-class people close to our customers/
markets and world-class technology and services provided to them by our central team.
on top of that, we are aware that there is more to our organization than business. we strongly believe that  
a company’s real test is whether it creates long-term value for all its stakeholders. only then will it be able  
to generate sustainable profits for its shareholders. we must therefore apply the highest standards when 
making decisions and i look forward to presenting a more formalized approach to our corporate responsi- 
bility as delivery hero continues to grow. 
our customers: the one thing we cannot forget as a company is to make sure that we stay close to our custo­
mers and markets. we have to care about every order, we should never leave a hungry customer unhappy.   
this is why one of the most important metrics to look at for me is our net promoter score (nps), a measure of 
the share of customers who would recommend our service. besides fulfilling these known expectations, we 
need to make sure we stay one step ahead. we need to experiment and make use of technology to create an 
ever-better service in ways neither our customers nor we anticipate today. 
therefore, it is vital that we keep innovating even as the company matures. this requires us to make small bets 
occasionally and separate them from our daily operations. once we prove the economic validity of such bets,  
we will double down on them and invest in order to build a leading business. one such example from the past 
letter from the ceo  annual report 2017
is the development of our own-delivery capabilities. we developed this as a separate business unit  
in a few of our markets and are now rolling out the technologies and processes in almost every market  
i’m confident  
in order to be the provider with the leading restaurant selection everywhere.
that 2018  
our restaurant partners: delivery hero would be nothing without our partners who actually prepare 
the food for our customers. we will continue to invest in making their lives easier and providing   will be a  
them with even more new business opportunities by partnering with us. besides working more closely 
successful  
with our existing partners, we also believe there are many thousands of potential new partners out 
there and we aim to connect them with our fast-growing customer base. we will invest in reaching out  year
to new restaurants and building the strongest restaurant networks in all markets we operate in. 
continuous fast growth: we believe that we need to build market-leading brands in order to be in a 
position to invest and create the best customer experiences. this requires continuous focus on all of   7
the minute details of our operations. as a former professional cross-country skier i’m used to training 
every day and to working hard to make incremental improvements in what i do – part of my job is  
to instill this spirit throughout the entire company. 
of course, continuous fast growth also requires continued investment. i firmly believe that a significant 
share of excess profit contributions need to be re-invested at this stage of the company’s development  
in order to create and maintain a market leadership position for sustainable and long term profits.  
the investment opportunities range from better services, better restaurant integration and coverage  
to higher customer acquisition budgets. this is in line with our commitment to be full year adjusted 
ebitda profitable in 2019.
i’m confident that if we focus on the above, 2018 will be another successful year. thank you for your 
trust in our heroic team – we will continue to work hard to deliver on our vision and shape the trends  
of our industry. i’m excited about the future and what we will be able to achieve together.
yours sincerely,
niklas östberg  
chief executive officer/co-founder
who we are  annual report 2017
who  
we are
8
who we are  annual report 2017
online food ordering  
and delivery marketplace
we see ourselves as true entrepreneurs, using the latest in  we are specialists in a complex industry. food ordering 
technology and logistics to become the global leader in food  is a personal experience which can be influenced by 
multiple factors. the way the food is cooked, presented 
ordering and delivery. we differentiate from others by providing 
and delivered varies for each person, country and cul­
a more enhanced, better, and what we refer to as an “amazing”  ture. on an even more local level, every neighborhood 
has access to different restaurants and choices of cui­
user experience, driven by product innovation, proprietary 
sine. the level of personalization and localization deter­
technology, and best-in-class execution.  mines the quality of our experience, driven and impact­
ed by the data we aggregate on users’ behaviors and 
 preferences. 
in order to lead in this complex industry, delivery hero 
operates a tightly managed marketplace which inte­ 9
order receive grates with every step of the food ordering and delivery 
value chain. this allows our customers to consistently 
have an amazing experience, no matter what or where 
search cook they order.
eat
deliver
who we are  annual report 2017
market 
 opportunity
the food delivery market is one of the largest global  hence, a large part of the restaurant market of over  mega trends that drive additional growth
opportunities and is still highly fragmented, locally  € 500 billion in our more than 40 countries will soon be 
based and predominantly offline. currently the industry  significantly  penetrated by further on-demand services, 
offers little transparency to consumers, allowing us   well beyond the existing current € 70 billion market 
to create a significant value proposition for our market­ oppor tunity.
place business. 
delivery hero is able to provide own-delivery services  
to restaurants without this capability and hence cater   online &   on-demand &   life-style  
current food delivery market for the shift towards on-demand services. over the past   mobile   last-mile   urbanization & 
engagement logistics convenience
five years, our investment in these services has enabled 
today delivery hero operates in countries where the  us to partner with additional restaurants, including 
existing food delivery culture is strong, representing an   highly demanded or higher quality restaurants, popular 
10 addressable market of more than 70 billion1 annually  chains and leading international brands. as a result  
and having an addressable customer base of more than  we have seen our customers increasing the f requency  
one billion in more than 40 countries. yet, the penetra- at which they order on our platform.
tion of customers ordering food online in our markets is  €563bn
just 11%1 – we still have a huge opportunity to surpass  our new restaurants partners are now able to reach  
our biggest competitor, the telephone.  new customers seeking greater availability, speed  
foodservice 
and reliability, and give customers the convenience of  
eating in their own home. thanks to our significant  market  
disrupting the food services  investment over the past years, we remain the number  in delivery hero’s  
industry  one choice for delivery services in our countries,   countries (2016)
given that reliability and speed is so important to  
in addition to the existing food delivery market, we  our partners.
 continue to disrupt the food services industry which is  
a more than € 500 billion opportunity1 in the countries  we have also seen the emerging trend of “cloud 
that we operate in. the entire restaurant industry is   kitchens” – restaurants that completely optimize their 
1.5
switching towards on-demand delivery and take-away,  operations for food delivery and only require kitchen 
impacted by the growth in urbanization, middle classes,  space – develop across our countries. this disruption   population (bn)
and the evolution of “millennials” that do appreciate  is supported by the consumer trend of convenience  
time and convenience more than other generations.  and demand for additional restaurant supply, which  
will  continue in the next years to come, helping us  
to further disrupt the food services industry.
1  management estimates of market size and online penetration in 2016.
who we are  annual report 2017
global  
leadership
40
we operate in over 40 countries, and in 2017 we contin­ we have increased our investments in product and  over    
ued to consolidate our market leadership positions,    technology during 2017, leveraging the data we gather  countries
by increasing our gross merchandise value (“gmv”),  from millions of customer orders, and will continue  
orders and revenues. in 2017 we saw our revenue  to do so. this has enabled us to further personalize our 
increase by 60% to € 544.2 million and gmv grew by  product, displaying restaurant options tailored to a 
46% to € 3,824.3 million.   customer’s preferences. 
investing in our product  investing in accelerating the 
channel shift with marketing 
we believe that the key to creating long-term leadership 
is through creating a superior product experience based  while customers referrals and word of mouth remains  
on three pillars:  a major channel for new customers, we continue to  11
  invest in marketing to accelerate the channel shift from 
  1 .  amazing food ensuring we have the right  phone ordering to online ordering. when allocating  
quantity, quality and variety of restaurants   this investment, we take a strong return on investment 
in every neighborhood  read more page 20 approach to determine the optimal spend for each  
country and marketing channel. in 2017 we continued   investing  
  2 .  amazing ordering ensuring that our order­ to increase our customer acquisition investment with  
in our  
ing experience is convenient, inspirational,  an additional € 71.7 million.
simple and personalized  read more page 23 leadership  
  3 . a  mazing service ensuring that our food is  investing in the local  positions
delivered quickly, reliably and can be tracked   neighborhood 
in real-time  read more page 26
we continue to invest in our local restaurant supply in 
each neighborhoods, adding in-demand restaurants to 
our platform. this includes scaling our own-delivery 
capabilities in neighborhoods where there is a shortage 
or missing restaurant supply. in addition, we strengthen 
our restaurant partnerships with additional tools and 
services to improve their business. in 2017 we delivered 
28.7 million orders with our own local delivery capabi-
lities. 
who we are  annual report 2017
europe mena
14 9
countries countries
189m 239m
total   total  
population1 population1
72% 65%
urban   urban  
population1 population1
austria/ bosnia and herzegovina / bulgaria / croatia /   bahrain / egypt / jordan / kuwait / oman / qatar /  
czech republic / finland / germany / greece / hungary /  saudi arabia / turkey / uae
montenegro / romania / serbia / sweden / switzerland
12
americas asia
8 10
countries countries
374m 624m
total   total  
population1 population1
84% 47%
urban   urban  
population1 population1
argentina / brazil / chile / colombia / ecuador /   bangladesh / brunei / hong kong / malaysia / pakistan / 
panama / peru / uruguay philippines / south korea / singapore / taiwan /thailand
1  source: world development indicators, 2018; rounded figures
 
excluding foodora own-delivery only countries (australia, canada, france,  
italy, netherlands, norway) as well as costa rica and paraguay.
who we are  annual report 2017
m&a as a growth accelerator in 2017 the uk’s competition and markets authority  acquisitions and investments
(the “cma”) unconditionally cleared the sale of our 
we continually look to accelerate growth through  operations in the united kingdom for gbp 240 mil­ carriage  
select m&a. we acquire businesses in our segments  lion. this has enabled us to reinvest across our other  (mena) 
to give us access to additional c ustomers and restau­ markets and continue to focus our operations where 
foodfly  
rants, which allows us to better tailor our products  we have a leadership position. we sold our brands  
(south korea)
and provides us with additional logistical or tech- in kazakhstan, slovakia and georgia for the same 
nological capabilities.   reason. appetito24  
(panama)
driven by this strategy for profitable growth in scale  where it makes sense strategically, we partner with 
deliveras 
and reach, we have completed multiple acquisitions  local operators who have built leading businesses. 
(greece) in 2018
in 2017. acquiring carriage in the middle east and  over the last 12 months we have entered into a joint 
foodfly in south korea has enabled us to scale our  venture with amrest in poland, who operates a  usd 105m in rappi   13
delivery capabilities in both regions. our acquisition   number of restaurant brands such as kfc, burger 
(south america) in 2018
of appetito24 in panama has extended our leader-  king or pizzahut in many central and eastern euro-
ship status across latin america.  pean c ountries. in india we divested our business  
to ola, the operator of a rider sharing platform, in  strategic divestments
given our disciplined m&a approach, we are rational  return for a stake in their business. 
about capital allocation and only spend capital where  poland  
we expect the highest returns.  (51% to amrest) 
kazakhstan 
slovakia 
georgia 
uk  
(in 2018)
we continually  
india  
look to accelerate   (against minority stake in ola)
growth through  
select m&a
who we are  annual report 2017
our  
business model
high returning customers  new customers majority of orders
from existing cohorts
through our customer experience, delivery hero has built  our loyal base of satisfied customers helps to attract  total orders per cohort and year
a service that commands a high degree of loyalty and  many new customers to our platform through referrals 
which forms the foundation of our business model. the  and in 2017 this was one of our largest new customer 
majority of our orders come from returning customers.  acquisition channels.
these customers value our extensive restaurant partner­
ships, the wide variety of cuisines, seamless ordering  in order to accelerate the adoption of our technology 
orders from  increasing
experience, and the level of personali zation and locali- and shift customers from phone ordering to our 
2017 cohort
first-time
zation.   platforms, we target them via paid marketing channels. 
we have a return on investment focused marketing  customer- 
in 2017 we increased our orders to 292 million, of these  strategy which is dynamically applied across the whole  base
14 94% were from returning customers, which is very  group. we take a data-driven approach, and continu­
 similar to subscription business models, in our case  ously evaluate the behavior of our new and returning  orders from  +31%
organic in nature. by focusing on developing a better  customers, analyzing their cost per acquisition on a  2016 cohort
high  
customer experience – meaning having access to more  channel level, the incremental profits they bring to the 
returning
restaurants, a smoother ordering process, fast and  company, and their lifetime value. 
+29% customer-
 reliable delivery – we can continue to improve our 
orders from  base
 customer frequency and retentions.  2015 cohort
2015 2016 2017
by developing a better 
customer experience  
we increase the  
frequency of orders  
on our platform
who we are  annual report 2017
multiple revenue streams  measuring delivery  revenue composition 2017 by source
 performance 
in order to provide our services we charge a commission 
4% 4%
to our restaurant partners as a percentage of the gross  we measure the performance of our delivery capa-
food value. this percentage varies across countries and  bilities by measuring the profit contribution margin per  credit card use other
is based on the level of service we provide to our part­ order, which deducts all costs associated with h iring, 
9%
ners. if we provide the delivery services, the commission  employing or contracting riders and dispatching riders.
rate can be twice the normal amount, given the restau­ delivery fees  
rant no longer needs to employ or contract the rider.  where we have scaled our delivery services, we are able 
9% 75%
to generate the same – if not a slightly higher – profit 
we generate additional revenue streams by providing  contribution when we provide delivery as when it is  premium   commissions
restaurants with various extended services:  handled by the restaurant. this is the case in developed  placements
countries where there is a higher average order value  15
— we receive a delivery fee when we provide the  and labor costs are higher, and in developing countries 
 delivery services. this is common in the countries  with a lower order value and lower labor costs. 
where we operate and typically the restaurant 
charges this directly to customers when providing  we have been able to achieve this through the 
delivery services themselves.   considerable technology investments we have made 
— we receive premium placement revenues, which  over the past five years. in 2017 we continued to increase 
totaled 9% of all revenues in 2017. this comes from   our rider efficiency, reaching an average of more than 
our product feature which gives restaurants the  two deliveries per hour in the three segments where  
opportunity to pay for top position listings clearly  we have scaled our delivery operations. 
marked accordingly, or access to new customers that 
have not previously ordered from their restaurant.  operating a hybrid delivery platform – meaning  
operating as a marketplace as well as having own- 
delivery capabilities – has a number of advantages.  
we provide delivery services to increase our supply of 
high-demand restaurants which allows us to roll out 
delivery in neighborhoods with higher order density. 
additionally, we can leverage the order volume that  
we already have, due to  res taurants providing the  
delivery.
who we are  annual report 2017
international approach, 
local execution
food delivery is a very localized business model. within  our global technology team based in berlin is responsi­
each region, country and neighborhood, the consumer  ble for developing cutting edge technology, including 
preferences, restaurants, delivery and logistical environ­ investments in search, discovery and personalization. 
ment is extremely complex and varied. this is why we 
have a central support infrastructure based in berlin,  having a berlin-based central headquarters benefits  
with city, country and regional level teams that are  us in many other areas of our business. in 2017 we have 
responsible for the adaptation and execution of strategy  been able to further leverage the expertise of the cen­
in each area. we do customize to the needs of a local  tral team, including the centralization of many perfor­
country or neighborhood where needed to support a  mance marketing channels. this has g iven us increased 
better customer experience, although we centralize  visibility, optimized investment and results, and facili-
common functions wherever possible.  tated the sharing of best practices.
we support our  
local teams by  
16
building a leading technology 
providing access  
team in berlin
to global best  
practices
berlin is one of the world’s leading technology hubs  
and is the ideal location for our central office. the city’s  our turkish subsidiary yemeksepeti  
in istanbul
broad appeal enables us to attract the best local and 
global talent, building a world-class team to help us 
build leading technology to disrupt the food delivery 
industry. 
our operations team is able to leverage our centralized 
data systems, enabling performance comparisons 
between each neighborhood, city and country across 
multiple kpis, using the learnings to roll out best 
 practices globally.
our global  
technology team  
based in berlin is  
building cutting  
edge technology
headquarter in berlin
who we are  annual report 2017
our founders, entrepreneurs, we are fortunate to have retained most of the group’s 
ceos, and local teams original founders and entrepreneurs, who are still 
 hungry to see their businesses grow and continue to 
our business is also locally-focused and we need to  contribute their knowledge to benefit the group, 
adapt the product, marketing and operations to    appreciating the significant long-term growth oppor-
suit our local customers’ preferences, the restaurant  tunity.
environment and logistical challenges.
given the local nature of food delivery, we have seven 
we sometimes refer to ourselves as the “united nations  main regional and country platforms with their own 
of food delivery”, as it is our local entrepreneurs,  development teams, but leverage global infrastructure 
 founders and leadership teams, and their deep knowl­ and common components. this ensures we are able to 
we are able to adapt  
edge of their local neighborhoods, cities and consumer  adapt global technology modules at a local level and 
trends that helps us to scale rapidly and disrupt the   keep pace with the evolving consumer and restaurant  global technology   17
food delivery market at the local level. environment. ln addition, we have number of people on  modules to the local  
the ground in each major city to increase our restaurant  market needs
coverage or manage the logistical infrastructure.
our 2017 ceo world meeting in athens,  
hosted by our greek brand, efood
our local approach  
gives us deep  
knowledge of each  
city we operate in
our riders delivering food in a local  
neighborhood of buenos aires, argentina
18
creating  
an amazing  
takeaway  
experience
creating an amazing takeaway experience  annual report 2017
amazing  amazing   amazing  
food ordering service
ensuring we have the right  ensuring that our ordering  ensuring that our food is 
quantity, quality and variety  experience is convenient,   delivered quickly, reliably and 
of restaurants in every neigh­  inspirational, simple and  can be tracked in real-time
borhood  personalized
19
read more p. 20 read more p. 23 read more p. 26
creating an amazing takeaway experience  annual report 2017
amazing
 food
ensuring we have the right quantity, quality and 
variety of restaurants in every neighborhood
20
creating an amazing takeaway experience  annual report 2017
quantity, quality 
and variety
our customers crave variety, so we aim to ensure that we   in order to meet the demands of our customers we first 
can offer multiple restaurants and cuisine types in every  need to determine what they are looking for, and we 
focus on three key factors to do this: quantity, quality 
neighborhood – from international chains to local favorites – 
and variety. we analyze our cuisine type data in a given 
to cater to different individual preferences. area and ensure that a sufficient number of restaurants 
of each type is available on our platform. we then take  
a data-driven approach to actively manage our restau­
rant offering to optimize our product on a local level, 
improving choice based on demographic characteristics 
and demand.
expanding our restaurant 
21
selection
by the end of 2017 we had more than 150,000 active 
 restaurants listed across our platforms. these restau­
rants offer our customers an amazing array of cuisine 
types to satisfy their tastes. 
in any given area, there are popular restaurants without 
their own delivery infrastructure, and in these cases, we 
provide our own delivery service. in 2017 we provided 
delivery services in 31 of our countries. 
in order to implement our strategy, we have a dedicated 
team of sales and account managers working across all 
of our countries to build strong relationships with our 
restaurant partners. we actively work with restaurants 
to maintain a high-performance benchmark and improve 
ratings scores.
creating an amazing takeaway experience  annual report 2017
making restaurants 
more successful
our restaurant partner  our technology supports 
 solution technology restaurants in optimizing their 
operations
our restaurants are our most important partners and  
we aim to provide them with the most innovative tech­ we provide restaurants with the freedom to manage 
nology possible to enable them to reach their full poten­ their own online profile, including their hours of opera­
tial. in return, our restaurants partners receive signifi­ tion, their menu listings, and their deals and discounts. 
cant advantages from working with delivery hero. we  restaurants can also manage their premium placement 
increase their order volumes, give them access to new  listings via the restaurant portal, giving business owners 
customers, improve their efficiency, and add revenue at  greater freedom to control their visibility on our product. 
improved margins. moreover, restaurants benefit from 
the data which delivery hero is aggregating, allowing  in addition, restaurants have access to our rider mana-
22 them to take better decisions on customer offerings,  gement systems, including automated dispatch. we  
pricing, location and menu items. can also provide restaurants with data to increase their 
efficiency and gain a better understanding of order 
our restaurant partner solution is the technology we   volumes throughout the day.
roll out to restaurants. it can be accessed online,  
via a tablet, or as a downloadable application which  going forward we will continue to expand our restau­
restaurants can install on their own device. rant services and build on the numerous early stage 
deployments we are running across our countries.  what   how we make  
included in our restaurant partner solutions is our  restaurants restaurants (even)  
point- of-sale technology. this allows restaurants to  this includes our data analytics offering, our data-  do best more successful
enter in their over-the-counter or in-restaurant orders  driven insights for new restaurants and cloud kitchens, 
and helps them to better understand their business   our restaurants supplies offering with bulk ordering 
they cook   1.  order- and delivery  
and drive further efficiencies in the restaurant. advantages, merchandising materials, delivery vehicles  delicicous food technology
and safe, secure payment methods.
2.  commercial  
relationship
– profitable incremental orders
– marketing and visibility tools
– value chain optimization
3.  deep data-driven  
insights
creating an amazing takeaway experience  annual report 2017
amazing
ordering
ensuring that our ordering experience is convenient, 
 inspirational, simple and p  ersonalized
23
creating an amazing takeaway experience  annual report 2017
simple, smart  
and convenient
we are passionate about taking our customers’ ordering 
experience to the next level. each day we focus on simplifying 
and personalizing our product, so that we can continually 
move closer to the point where we know exactly what each 
customer wants, when they want it.
in 2017 we continued to focus on key product improve­
ments. this included inspiring customers with a simple 
ordering process, more visualization during the discovery 
24 process by adding delicious food images, the ability to 
search at dish-level, increasingly personalized restaurant 
recommendations, a wide variety of payment options, 
and a convenient reorder facility. subtle feature improve­
ments that resulted in increased order frequency.
creating an amazing takeaway experience  annual report 2017
more data, smoother ordering we want to make our customers’ choices even easier  
by giving them a few, targeted recommendations. by 
we constantly look to improve our product based on  making great order suggestions such as highlighting 
customer preferences and are able to utilize a vast  special dishes, gamifying search with selected offers via 
amount data across our platforms, including analyzing  our “joker” function and offering daily discounts based 
ordering behavior, to continually iterate and optimize   on search preferences, we can continually surprise and 
our service. delight our customers, thus increasing frequency.
it is important that our consumers have access to our  we monitor global trends to take advantage of oppor-
platform via their preferred ordering method. we  tunities, and in 2017 we have developed voice ordering, 
 provide an optimized experience across all channels,  which has been integrated into virtual assistants, cor-
with the majority of orders placed through mobile  porate platforms and our chat applications.
devices, which was over 70% of total orders in 2017. 25
in 2017 our improvements to our ordering experience 
have resulted in a 31% increase in orders coming from 
 customers acquired in 2016.
over 70% of total 
orders via mobile 
devices
creating an amazing takeaway experience  annual report 2017
amazing
service
ensuring that our food is delivered quickly, reliably 
and can be tracked in real-time
26
creating an amazing takeaway experience  annual report 2017
fast and  
reliable service
we strive to provide a fast and reliable service to 
our customers with real-time updates. 
delivery hero tightly manages all steps in the food deliv­
ery lifecycle, including transmission, delivery and post- 
order services. we are deeply integrated with the opera­
tions of our restaurant partners, which allows us to learn 
the cooking times of their dishes and make sure the food 
is ready exactly at the time the delivery rider arrives at 
the restaurant, all to improve speed, reliability and food  27
quality. 
we work to improve the delivery experience to our cus­
tomers by providing restaurant with our restaurant part­
ner solution that allows for better management of their 
delivery process and with our proprietary technology 
that improves the efficiency of our own delivery opera­
tions. all with full transparency to our customers through 
live tracking or constant status updates. 
while some of our services were in the early adoption 
phase in 2017, we envision a fast adoption of the techno-
logies that provide a better customer experience by 
improving transparency and accuracy. we will continue 
to integrate even more tightly into the delivery process, 
regardless of whether we, or the restaurants, are respon­
sible for the delivery. 
creating an amazing takeaway experience  annual report 2017
our global  
logistic technology, 
second to none 
by the end of 2017, our riders were delivering over  we have also significantly invested in an optimized   our geolocation technology
100,000 orders a day in an efficient and profitable way.  rider scheduling tool to continuously balance supply  
this is the result of significant investment as well as  and demand while providing our riders the maximum 
numerous years building and refining our delivery   possible flexibility. 
technology and restaurant operations. 
our proprietary algorithm estimates vendor preparation 
one particular area of significant investment has been  times based on the day of the week, the time of the day 
our proprietary delivery area technology, which besides  and the size of the order to match the time the food is 
from defining the delivery areas also provides real-time  ready with the time our riders gets to the restaurant in 
28 optimization and detailed delivery time estimates:  order to improve the food quality by reducing the time  initial   shaped towards
the food stays in the bag.  radius  the center of gravity
(2 km radius) (based on highest   
— firstly, we define the delivery area of our partner 
number of pickups)
restaurants. the definition takes into consideration 
the area density to allow fast and reliable deliveries.  
—  secondly, we shape delivery areas towards the centre 
of gravity to ensure that the rider will be more likely 
to have the next restaurant pick-up close to where 
they have delivered their previous order.  
—  thirdly, we adjust to average rider times around  
each restaurant, taking into account any obstacles 
and adding the time we estimate each vehicle type 
would take.   live operation adjusted to  
—  fourthly, we adjust the delivery areas to real-time  optimization real riding time
conditions such as fleet utilization, weather, and 
 other local events which may result in time changes 
or delays.  
ocrne aat minisgs aionn a –m aamzainzgin tga koeradweraiyn gexperience  annual report 2017
delivery guys  
are delivery heroes
additionally, the higher efficiency of a consolidate 
 logistics network will allow for more affordable prices 
which will further accelerate the market growth. if we 
top-notch data 
are only able to deliver one meal a week for all our 
 customers, i.e. 52 a year, this is already an incredible  science team 
step, but we aim even higher. 
that works  
how do delivery hero’s logistic  
to refine our 
operations stand out from the rest?  
e.g. we realized very early that developing a logistics  hourly order 
infrastructure would widen the restaurant choices for 
our customers, as we could partner with restaurants  forecasting
that would otherwise not be accessible. we are pio­
neers, building the most advanced logistics technology  29
in the industry. we have a fully automated system that 
selects optimal rider routes, estimates delivery times 
based on restaurant and rider workloads as well as 
interview with eduardo goes –   weather and traffic conditions. we also provide our 
chief logistics officer  customers with full delivery tracking. 
in which areas do you primarily   speaking of the future, do you think 
is own delivery an opportunity   invest when it comes to logistics?   robots or autonomous vehicles will do 
or a cost factor?   e.g. we aim to improve the experience of our c ustomers,  the deliveries in the near future?  
e.g. cooking at home is becoming more and more a  restaurants and riders by improving reliability, trans- e.g. we strongly believe that such logistics technologies 
selective and rather exclusive event, which most people  parency and productivity. productivity is quite important  will complement our services, giving our customers 
from upcoming generations won’t find time for. this is  since it allows us to increase affordability to our custom­ increased flexibility – for example longer distance 
leading to an explosive growth in the number of people  ers. we have product teams dedicated to our rider and   deliveries, or deliveries late at night and in extreme 
looking to have food prepared and delivered, requiring   restaurant apps. we also have a top-notch data science  weather. we are working closely with the leading 
a reshape of the entire ecosystem.  team that works on defining optimal d elivery areas,   companies in the delivery technology area in order  
hourly order forecasting, restaurant preparation times  to find ways to  further improve the experience for  
today, only a subset of restaurants have delivery  and real-time delivery time estimates.  our customers. 
 capabilities, which limits the choices to our customers, 
by offering logistics services to restaurants we aim at 
expanding the options to our customers. 
creating an amazing takeaway experience  annual report 2017
our rider  
community
tomek from oslo
30
“i have the best  
office in the world”
my favorite thing about the job:   tomek’s special facts
being outdoors in such a breath-
taking city, with stunning views  rider since: june 2016
across the sea. cycling along the  deliveries: 4,998
waterfront with yachts to the left  shifts done: 348
and gleaming post- industrial apart­ hours worked: 2,177
a key part of delivery hero success relies on our rider community. we   ments to the right, it’s easy to think   avr. speed: 19.5 km/h
currently have a large community of riders globally, and it is important   i have the best office in the world –  biggest delivery to date: 
that they feel engaged with our vision of delivering an amazing takeaway  with the north sea as the company  52 burritos and 24 sodas
experience. pool!
we promote many local events, competitions and social activities. riders  
love the opportunity to join a leading global business with flexible working 
conditions and a transparent relationship. 
creating an amazing takeaway experience  annual report 2017
mariana from montevideo jeevan from dubai
31
“this job allows me to work   “the customer told me he was out  
out while working” on his private yacht” 
reason for becoming a rider:  mariana's special facts funniest delivery location:  jeevan’s special fact
i’m a fitness fanatic preparing for   i had a delivery address which 
my second 42km marathon, i keep   rider since: october 2017 appeared to be at the edge of an  rider since: february 2017
fit by running half marathons, but  deliveries: 519 island, but when i got there, there  deliveries: 1,977
this job gives me an extra excuse   shifts done: 67 was no one in sight. i contacted the  shifts done: 189
to train – it allows me to work out  hours worked: 253  customer and he told me he was out  hours worked: 1,952
while working!” avr. speed: 24.1 km/h on his private yacht, and he would  avr. speed: 21.9 km/h
biggest delivery to date:  send his security boat over to pick  biggest delivery to date:  
10 big burgers me up. i hopped in, cruised out to  € 200 worth of pizza
the yacht and handed the delivery 
over to my happy customer!
creating an amazing takeaway experience  annual report 2017
global business,  
local expertise
we sometimes call ourselves the “united nations of food delivery” 
due to the fact that we operate in so many different markets  
with different local demands. this is particularly significant when  
it comes to logistics.
did you know that …
32
we offer   we   in 2017   globally 
own delivery  have   riders   bikes make 
service in over   over  rode  up around 
31 7,000 13.1 52%
countries active drivers million km of our  
delivery  
fleet
just imagine there are …
– 26°c no street  strong   + 54°c
names in  demand for  
in tampere/  in kuwait
saudi arabia night delivery 
finland
in south  
korea
report of the    annual report 2017
supervisory board
report of the  
supervisory board
dear shareholders, overview agement, financial, investment and personnel planning, 
corporate governance and compliance, and the course of 
the financial year 2017 was an important and successful year  the first supervisory board of delivery hero ag was con­ business. the management board always fulfilled its duties 
for delivery hero ag. the company was able to sustain its  stituted itself on may 29, 2017 with the company’s change  to keep the supervisory board informed.
growth trajectory while further strengthening and solidify­ of legal form to that of a joint stock company. it has prop­
ing its position as an international online market place for  erly and duly discharged the duties incumbent upon it  in particular, the management board finalised the compa­
food orders and food delivery – particularly with its change  according to the law, the articles of association, and its  ny’s further strategic direction in consultation with the 
of legal form to that of a joint stock corporation, its subse­ by-laws, diligently protecting the interests of all sharehold­ supervisory board. the management board has always 
quent initial public offering (ipo), and its  recently  approved  ers while bearing in mind the claims of other affected  included the supervisory board fully and directly in all 
and soon-to-be-effected adoption of the legal form of a euro­ groups as well. important decisions, particularly in regard to all measures 
pean joint stock corporation (a societas europaea, or “se”). and business transactions that are subject to supervisory 
one of the supervisory board’s primary duties is to advise  board approval. those transactions that were subject to 
delivery hero ag has been listed in the prime standard seg­ and supervise the management board. the main points of  approval were explained by and discussed with the man­ 33
ment of the frankfurt stock exchange since june 30, 2017.  focus of this activity during the reporting period were, in  agement board before any resolution was passed by the 
in september 2017, deutsche börse decided to include  particular, the strategic direction of delivery hero ag for  super visory board. the discussions took place in meetings – 
delivery hero ag in the sdax of the prime standard of the  further growth, corporate planning as a whole, and corpo­ including ones – including via telephone – of the full super­
german stock exchange. with its initial public offering (ipo),  rate financing. the successful ipo was of particularly great  visory board and its committees and in direct exchange 
the company has laid the groundwork for its next growth  importance for delivery hero ag and the work of the super­ with the management board outside of the meetings.
phase. now that it is a listed company, it is subject to partic­ visory board. the supervisory board advised and support­
ularly stringent transparency and publicity requirements.  ed the management board during the preparatory work  in regard to the organizational and legal measures pertain­
these post-listing duties have also had an impact on the  ensuring that the legal and organizational duties arising  ing to the ipo, the flow of information from the manage­
work of the supervisory board. there are numerous rules  from the ipo were being met. the supervisory board was  ment board to the supervisory board was always reliable 
and provisions that apply directly to the supervisory board  at all times actively involved in all matters of central impor­ and regular. the same was true for the cash capital increase 
and its work with the management board. the supervisory  tance to the company and in all decisions of the manage­ that was carried out in early december 2017 by way of an 
board has been working with the management board to  ment board. the collaboration between management board  accelerated bookbuilding process. in that regard, too, the 
ensure that processes and structures are established within  and supervisory board was always trusting, constructive,  management board always kept the super visory board 
the company that satisfy the requirements of the exchange. appropriate, collegial and efficient. informed in a timely and thorough manner, at all times 
keeping the supervisory board fully involved in the crucial 
the management board reported to the supervisory board  deliberations and decisions. the supervisory board, and i 
regularly and extensively, both in writing and verbally, on  in particular as chairman of the supervisory board, have 
the company’s position, strategic plans, and intended busi­ otherwise engaged at regular intervals in  vigorous discus­
ness policy along with important business transactions  sion with the management board in regard to current devel­
entered into by the company or group. it also commented  opments and important decisions.
on important questions concerning risk exposure, risk man­
report of the    annual report 2017
supervisory board
the supervisory board has confirmed that the management  since the change of form was entered in the commercial  to be able to discharge its duties properly and to increase 
board has installed a functioning risk management system  register, the management board has consisted of consist of  the efficiency of the supervisory board’s working methods, 
and a functioning internal control system, which is capable  mr niklas östberg (chairman of the management board,  the supervisory board – in accordance with the recommen­
of detecting early developments that might put the com­ ceo) and mr emmanuel thomassin (cfo). mr östberg and  dations of the german corporate governance code – formed 
pany’s continued existence at risk; and which ensures that  mr thomassin have each been appointed members of the  three committees in all, specifically an audit committee, a 
bookkeeping and accounting are done properly and that  management board for terms through april 30, 2022. remuneration committee and a nomination committee.
the financial reporting is reliable. the further expansion of 
the risk management system and the improvement of both  the members of the audit committee are mr georg graf von 
systems remain a particular focus of the work of the super­ meetings and resolutions of   waldersee and dr martin enderle; the chairman of the audit 
visory board in view of the challenges of our still young  the supervisory board and its  committee and financial expert on the audit committee is 
and rapidly growing company. in addition, the superviso­  committees mr graf von waldersee. the remuneration committee con­
ry board has verified that the company has a functioning  sists of the members mr jeffrey lieberman and dr martin 
34 internal audit system that ensures independent and objec­ in its regular discussions, the supervisory board has  devoted  enderle. the members of the nomination committee are 
tive evaluation of the appropriateness and effectiveness of  its attention to the operational and strategic position of  mr lieberman and dr enderle.
management and supervisory processes and of the risk  delivery hero ag and of the group and apprised itself, 
management and internal control systems. finally, the  through the management board’s written and verbal  in financial year 2017, the audit committee and the remu­
supervisory board has confirmed to its satisfaction the fur­ reports, of the company’s economic and financial perfor­ neration committee each held four meetings. the nomina­
ther development and effectiveness of the compliance man­ mance. as mentioned, one point of focus in discussions in  tion committee did not convene any meetings. the nomi­
agement system that ensures observance of the law and  the financial year 2017 was the preparation and realization  nation committee held no meeting.
internal guidelines. in this context, the supervisory board  of the company’s ipo.
has also taken care of a further continued development of  mr jeffrey lieberman was prevented from attending one 
the internal organization and a faster implementation of  since being constituted in 2017 following entry of its change  face- to-face meeting and submitted his vote in writing. all 
the measures which have been developed by the company  of form in the commercial register, the supervisory board  other members of the supervisory board participated in all 
for a further enhancement of the financial and accounting  has had a total of four face-to-face meetings in all. when­ face-to-face meetings. all members of the audit commit­
department, the compliance management system and the  ever necessary, the super visory board took its decisions by  tee and the remuneration committee also attended all 
risk management system by way of further professional and  a written circulation procedure or in telephone confer­ meetings of the respective committee.
personnel reinforcement. ences. the supervisory board met regularly in the presence 
of the management board, except when they met to dis­
cuss its remuneration.
report of the    annual report 2017
supervisory board
the subject matters of the meetings and resolutions of the  the audit committee regularly dealt during the course of  —   the member of the supervisory board mr john green 
supervisory board in plenary session were, in particular, the  the year with the structures and processes in the areas of  reported a possible conflict of interest in connection 
preparation and realisation of the company’s ipo in the sum­ accounting, the internal control system, internal audit, risk  with the capital increase against cash contributions  
mer of 2017, analysis and discussion of the management  management and the compliance organization and discussed  in december 2017. mr jonathan green is a partner in 
board’s reports concerning the course of business and cor­ measures with the management board to further strengthen  an investment firm that holds an interest in delivery  
porate strategy, preparation and execution of a cash capital  these areas. in addition, it dealt in detail with the semi-annu­ hero ag through various funds and which took up 
increase for the company in early december by way of an  al financial reporting for the company and the group and the  further shares in connection with the capital increase. 
accelerated bookbuilding process, as well as the approval of  quarterly results for the third quarter of 2017. in addition, a  mr jonathan green did not take part in the relevant 
the budget. furthermore, there were resolutions in regard  detailed discussion was held with the auditor on the audit  discussions and abstained from the voting.
to various corporate governance topics, for example the  planning for the consolidated financial statements and the  —   the member of the supervisory board mr patrick 
approval of by-laws for the management board, the super­ annual financial statements as well as on the focus of the  kolek has reported a potential conflict of interest  
visory board and the audit committee after it was constitut­ audit. in connection with the sale of the shares in pisces 
ed, issuance of the annual statement of compliance pursu­  eservices private limited (foodpanda india) to ani  35
ant to § 161 aktg, the setting of concrete targets for the  the remuneration committee dealt in particular with the  technologies private limited (ola) in exchange for  
composition of the supervisory board along with the cre­ management board members’ employment contracts, spe­ an investment in ani technologies private limited.  
ation of a profile of skills and expertise for the body as a  cifically with the setting of their remuneration, and with  mr patrick kolek is an employee of a company that 
whole and of guidelines for non-audit services by the audi­ the introduction of various variable long-term remunera­ holds shares in a competitor of the company which 
tor of delivery hero ag. tion programs in which, in addition to selected employees,  was the subject of the m&a transaction. mr patrick 
the management board members are also included.  kolek did not participate in the relevant discussions 
certain transactions and measures by the management  and abstained from voting.
board are subject to prior approval by the supervisory board  in the course of the supervisory board’s and its committees’ 
owing to legal requirements or requirements in the man­ deliberations and resolutions, the following conflicts of inter- no other conflicts of interest on the part of supervisory 
agement board’s by-laws. matters for which the super visory  est have been reported, which were dealt with as follows: board members, which must be promptly disclosed, arose 
board reserves consent and to which it devoted its atten­ in the financial year 2017.
tion included the employment contracts of the management  —   the member of the supervisory board mr lukasz 
board members niklas östberg and emmanuel thomassin,   gadowski has reported a possible conflict of interest 
the sale of the shares in pisces  eservices private limited  in connection with the resolution on the early repay­
(foodpanda india) to ani technologies private limited (ola),  ment of a loan in june 2017. mr lukasz gadowski is a 
india's best-known mobility platform, for a stake in ani tech­ shareholder of the company that granted the loan.  
nologies private limited, the acquisition of all shares in  mr lukasz gadowski did not participate in the rele­
fly & company inc., which operates a food delivery platform  vant discussions and abstained from voting.
under the  foodfly brand, and an investment in rappi inc., 
the holding company of a leading on-demand and multi 
vertical delivery service platform in latin america.
report of the    annual report 2017
supervisory board
corporate governance audit and approval of the a  nnual  the supervisory board approved and took notice of the 
financial statements and   audit results and the audit committee’s recommendation. 
in its meeting on june 6, 2017 the supervisory board dis­ consolidated financial statements the supervisory board then likewise reviewed the 2017 
cussed various questions relating to corporate governance.  annual and consolidated financial statements in its meet­
it subsequently issued its first statement of compliance  the management board submitted to the members of the  ing on april 24, 2018, along with the joint management 
jointly with the management board on december 28, 2017,  audit committee, the yet unaudited annual financial state­ report of delivery hero ag and the group, and discussed 
pursuant to section 161 aktg, and made it permanently pub­ ments and consolidated financial statements for the finan­ them extensively with the auditor. the auditor reported on 
licly available to the shareholders on the company’s web­ cial year 2017, the combined management report of  the salient results of his audit. the supervisory board like­
site. with the exceptions explained in the statement of  delivery hero ag and the group for the financial year 2017  wise reviewed the nonfinancial statement for the group.
compliance, delivery hero ag is in compliance with the rec­ as well as the non-financial statement for the group imme­
ommendations of the german corporate governance code  diately after they were prepared..  the result of the preliminary review by the audit commit­
in the version of february 7, 2017 and will continue to com­ tee and the result of the supervisory board’s own review 
36 ply with them in future. kpmg ag wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, berlin, audited  were entirely consistent with the audit results. there were 
the annual financial statements of delivery hero ag and  no objections to be raised after the final results of the 
the entire text of the statement of compliance, along with  the consolidated financial statements, along with the com­ supervisory board’s review. the supervisory board there­
further explanations relating to the company’s corporate  bined management report of delivery hero ag and the  fore approved the annual financial statements and the con­
governance, are to be found on the company's internet page  group for the financial year 2017, and issued an unqualified  solidated financial statements for 2017 on april 25, 2019 via 
at http://it.deliveryherom.com/websites/delivery/english/  audit opinion.  a phone conference and with the participation of the audi­
4500/declaration-of-compliance.html. further corporate  tor; the 2017 annual financial statements are therefore 
governance-related explanations, likewise with the text of  in their meeting on april 24, 2018 the members of the audit  approved. 
the statement of compliance reproduced in full, are con­ committee discussed in detail, in the auditor’s presence, 
tained also in the corporate governance statement and the  the annual financial statements, the consolidated finan­
group governance statement, along with the corporate  cial statements, the combined management report of 
governance report of the management board and super­ delivery hero ag and the group, the non-financial state­
visory board pursuant to §§ 289f, 315d hgb and section 3.10  ment for the group, and the results of the external audit. 
dcgk. the auditor reported on the salient results of his audit. on 
this basis the audit committee proposed that the super-
visory board approve the financial statements drawn up by 
the management board.
report of the    annual report 2017
supervisory board
personal information on march 20, 2018, the management board of delivery  
hero ag submitted an application to the local court 
former supervisory board member mr kolja hebenstreit  charlotten burg for the appointment of janis zech as mem­
resigned from his office as member of the supervisory  ber of the supervisory board of delivery hero ag by way of 
board of delivery hero ag and left the supervisory board  a judicial appointment until the end of the next annual gen­
on june 3, 2017. the supervisory board thanks mr kolja  eral meeting. at the time of this report, the local court of 
hebenstreit for his faithful service and his valuable contri­ charlottenburg has not yet decided on the application.
bution to the board’s work.
the supervisory board thanks the management board and 
in connection with mr kolja hebenstreit’s resignation, the  all employees of the company for their tremendous per­
shareholder naspers ventures b.v. exercised the right of  sonal dedication and outstanding accomplishments in finan­
delegation to which it was entitled at that time under sec­ cial year 2017. the financial year 2017 was marked by many 
tion 8(1) of the articles of association and delegated mr  important milestones and strong growth. these would not  37
patrick kolek to the supervisory board until the end of the  have been possible without the commitment, positive atti­
general meeting ratifying the acts of management for the  tude, and quality-consciousness of all employees.
financial year in which the change in form of the former 
delivery hero gmbh into delivery hero ag took effect –  berlin, on april 25, 2018
that being the past, 2017 financial year.
for the supervisory board
former supervisory board member mr lukasz gadowski 
likewise resigned from his office as member of the super­
visory board of delivery hero ag by letter of december 15,   
2017 and has left the supervisory board. the supervisory 
board also thanks mr gadowski for his faithful service and  dr martin enderle
his valuable contribution to the board’s work. chairman of the supervisory board of delivery hero ag
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
corporate  
governance report
corporate governance statement,  german stock corporation act). the statement of compli­ board shall provide for a deductible in the amount of 
group governance statement and  ance will be made permanently available on the company’s  10% of the loss up to at least the amount of one  
corporate governance report  website. and a half times the fixed annual remuneration of  
(§§ 289f, 315d hgb, section 3.10 dcgk) the respective member of the supervisory board. 
the management board and supervisory board of delivery   delivery hero ag’s current d&o insurance for the 
as practised by delivery hero, “corporate governance” sig­ hero ag declare that, since its ipo on june 30, 2017, delivery   members of the supervisory board does not include  
nifies responsible management and supervision of the com­ hero ag has complied, and in future will remain in compliance,  a deductible. the management board and the super-
pany with the underlying aim of long-term success. the  with the february 7, 2017 version of the recommendations of  visory board are of the opinion that a deductible for 
management board and supervisory board of delivery   the “regierungskommission deutscher corporate governance  the members of the supervisory board does not have 
hero ag are aware of how important the principles of  kodex” (governmental commission on the german corporate  any influence on the awareness of responsibility and 
responsible and good corporate governance are, and they  governance code) that the german federal ministry of justice  loyalty of the members of the supervisory board  
are committed to upholding them. accordingly, the man­ and consumer protection published in the official section of  with regard to their tasks and functions. moreover,  
38 agement board and supervisory board attach the utmost  the federal gazette on april 24, 2017, with the following excep­ it would reduce delivery hero ag’s possibilities to 
value to good corporate governance, in regard to which  tions: compete for competent and qualified members of  
they are guided by the recommendations of the german  the supervisory board.
corporate governance code (“dcgk”). —   pursuant to section 4.2.3 para. 2 sentence 6 of the 
declaration of compliance 2017 code, the amount of remuneration for a member of a 
the management board and supervisory board of delivery   management board shall be capped with maximum 
hero ag make the following corporate governance report  levels, both as regards variable components and in the 
(pursuant to section 3.10 dcgk) together with the corporate  declaration by the management board  aggregate. the long-term incentive plan which has 
governance statement and group governance statement  and the supervisory board of delivery   been adopted by the supervisory board as part of the 
pursuant to §§ 289f, 315d hgb owing to the closely- related  hero ag regarding the recommendations  future compensation system for the management 
content of and connection between these documents. the  of the “government commission german  board consists of a stock option plan as well as of a 
corporate governance statement, the group governance  corporate governance code” pursuant   restricted stock plan. both under the stock option 
statement and the corporate governance report may be  to section 161 aktg plan and the restricted stock plan, the number of 
retrieved from the company’s website at https://ir.deliv  shares to be allocated to the management board 
eryhero.com/websites/delivery/english/4100/corporate-gov  management board and supervisory board declare: members is capped. however, both plans do not pro­
ernance-report.html. vide for a cap on the achievable amount upon the 
delivery hero ag has complied since going public on june 30,  exercise of the stock options (regarding the stock 
2017 and will continue to comply in the future with the  option plan) and on the value of the stocks to be 
statement of compliance pursuant   re commendations of the “government commission german  transferred to the beneficiary after the expiry of the 
to § 161 aktg corporate governance codex” in the version dated febru­ blocking period (regarding the restricted stock plan). 
the shares of delivery hero ag have been traded on the  ary 7, 2017 published by the federal gazette on april 24, 2017  in the opinion of the supervisory board, such caps 
prime standard segment of the frankfurt stock exchange  (the “code”), subject to the following deviations: would not be appropriate as they would contradict 
and elsewhere since june 30, 2017 (listing date: june 28,  the alignment of the interests of the management 
2017). delivery hero ag is accordingly issuing its first state­ —   pursuant to section 3.8 para. 3 of the code, the d&o  board members with those of the shareholders. the 
ment of compliance pursuant to § 161 aktg (aktiengesetz,  insurance covering the members of a supervisory  purpose of both instruments under the long-term 
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
incentive plan is to ensure an adequate and balanced  berlin, in december 2017 corporate governance and relevant 
participation of the management board members in   disclosures pertaining to corporate 
the economic risks and chances of delivery hero ag.  on behalf of the supervisory board of delivery hero ag:  governance practices
in the opinion of the supervisory board, a cap on the   
value of stocks would not be in line with such parti-   corporate governance – standards of good and 
cipation. as no cap on the achievable amount of the    responsible corporate governance
variable components of the compensation exists, also  the management board and supervisory board of delivery  
no cap on the remuneration in the aggregate is in  dr martin enderle hero ag interpret “corporate governance” as a comprehen­
place. therefore the company declares a deviation  chairman of the supervisory board sive concept for responsible, transparent, and value- oriented 
from sec. 4.2.3 para. 2 sentence 6 of the code. corporate management. good corporate governance accord­
—   pursuant to section 5.1.2 sentence 4 of the code, the  ing to the “reputable businessman” model serves to increase 
supervisory board together with the management  on behalf of the management board of delivery hero ag: on a lasting basis a company’s value as a going concern, and 
board shall ensure a long-term succession planning.  it fosters trust in our company’s management and supervi­ 39
as the members of the management board have     sion among national and international investors, the finan­
only recently been appointed, it is declared that the    cial markets, business partners, employees, and the public. 
supervisory board has not yet developed any succes­   accordingly, the company’s management board, super visory 
sion guidelines with regard to the members of the    board, and management see to it that our corporate gover­
management board. however, the supervisory board  niklas östberg  emmanuel thomassin nance policies are actively realised in practice and continu­
will, together with the management board, develop a  chairman of the   member of the  ally refined in all areas of the company. implementation and 
long-term succession planning in the near future, in  management board, ceo  management board, cfo observance of good corporate governance is understood to 
order to ensure a sustainable corporate development. be a central management task; for delivery hero ag as an 
—   pursuant to section 7.1.2 sentence 3 (alternative 1 and  internationally positioned company with worldwide opera­
alternative 2) of the code, the consolidated financial  tions, good and sustainable corporate governance is of spe­
statements and the group management report shall  cial importance.
be made publicly accessible within 90 days from the 
end of the financial year, while mandatory interim  corporate governance at delivery hero ag is determined in 
financial information shall be made publicly accessible  particular by the applicable laws, the recommendations of 
within 45 days from the end of the reporting period.   the dcgk, and internal by-laws and guidelines. delivery  
in order to ensure a high quality of the financial  hero ag observes all legal requirements for good corporate 
reporting, the recommended publication periods may  governance and follows, with the exceptions stated in the 
not in all cases be complied with. as a consequence,  statement of compliance, the recommendations of the 
delivery hero ag hereby declares a deviation from the  dcgk. in the course of the company’s ipo during the previ­
respective recommendation. however, delivery hero ag  ous financial year, the management board and supervisory 
is constantly seeking to improve its reporting system  board apprised the company’s employees of the pertinent 
and intends to comply with this recommendation of  issues relating to the law of capital markets, particularly 
the code in the near future. issues relating to insider trading law, in accordance with the 
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
legal requirements, creating informational materials to that  the internal control system serves in particular to achieve  the risk management system at delivery hero ag is based 
end and disseminating them throughout the company. the following objectives: on the following standards in particular: 
the management board and supervisory board attach great  —   efficiency and effectiveness of corporate   —    idw ps 340: audit standard of the idw (institut der 
value to cultivating an open corporate and management cul­ operational processes; wirtschaftsprüfer, institute of public auditors in 
ture. positive interpersonal relations within the company  —   accuracy and reliability of (internal and external)   germany) for auditing early risk detection systems 
are of paramount importance for the company’s economic  reports; pursuant to § 317(4) hgb
success and the satisfaction of its customers, employees,  —   integrity of financial and accounting data; —   iso 31000 standard: international standard of the iso 
partners, and shareholders. such a climate of collective  —   on-time preparation of financial reports; (international organization for standardization) for 
responsibility and open communication promotes the aware­ —   prevention and detection of fraud and irregularities;  risk management
ness necessary for compliance with laws, ethical standards,  and —   coso erm (enterprise risk management): standard  
and economic and social requirements. a detailed descrip­ —   compliance with provisions of law and internal  of the coso (committee of sponsoring organizations 
40 tion of our corporate social responsibility is to be found in   guidelines. of the treadway commission) for group-wide risk 
the non-financial statement of the group. management
the internal control system makes it possible to counter 
internal control system the risks arising from business activity, to monitor them  internal auditing system
to ensure the reliability of its bookkeeping and accounting,  continuously, and to manage them accordingly. the central task of the internal audit department of delivery  
delivery hero ag has set up an accounting- related internal  hero ag is to assist the management board and supervisory 
control system. the internal control system’s effectiveness  risk management system board in achieving corporate goals. to that end the internal 
is monitored by the audit committee and the supervisory  the purpose of the risk management system at delivery   audit department is responsible for independently and objec­
board. the internal control system is constantly adapted to  hero ag is to manage the group-wide processes involved  tively evaluating the appropriateness and effectiveness of 
the requirements of the rapidly growing delivery hero  in the operation of a proactive and effective risk manage­ management and monitoring processes and of the internal 
group. ment regime. this guarantees a full overview of significant  control and risk management systems.
risks. review is the responsibility of the “governance, risk 
the internal control system comprises the necessary organi- and compliance” department under a standardised and  internal audit is an independent department that reports to 
sational measures and controls within the company and  comprehensive regime for managing all significant risks.  the supervisory board’s audit committee or to the full super­
ensures compliance with internal guidelines, protection of  the “governance, risk and compliance” department reports  visory board and is organizationally subordinate to the cfo, 
company assets, and achievement of corporate goals. it  directly to the management board and the audit commit­ mr emmanuel thomassin. it is separate from the controlling 
comprises in addition an information system designed to  tee in regard to signi ficant risks. and compliance departments and independent of the audi­
assist both management and employees in the performance  tor and group auditor. internal audit serves to promote 
of their work. responsible corporate management in observance of the 
rele vant applicable provisions of law and subject to the stan­
dards of the deutsches institut für interne revision (diir) 
along with the standards and principles of the code of e thics 
of the institute of internal auditors (iia).
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
the internal audit department draws up an audit plan annu­ for early detection, control, and monitoring of risks, delivery   reporting of compliance violations
ally. included in this plan are risks that the risk management  hero has set up a “governance, risk and compliance” depart­ every employee of delivery hero is responsible for report­
system has previously identified and assessed accordingly.  ment. by its continual development of the instruments of its  ing violations, or potential violations, of law, our code of 
there currently exists a risk-based audit plan on the basis of  compliance management system, the compliance depart­ conduct, or internal guidelines. delivery hero offers 
which the appropriateness and efficacy of the internal con­ ment ensures that risks are identified and managed through­ employees and third parties – i.e., other internal and exter­
trol  system is evaluated in regard to strategic, operational,  out the company according to a specific method. potential  nal stakeholders – three means of reporting compliance 
and financial risks along with it- and compliance-related risks.  compliance risks are considered as well. the compliance  violations under our whistle-blower system: online through 
the director of internal audit provides the supervisory  department is a part of the legal department and is there­ a special communication platform, by means of an e-mail 
board’s audit committee with an audit report on a quar terly  fore subordinate to the company’s general counsel, who is  address set up specifically for that purpose, or by mail.
basis. this report contains, inter alia, an account of the cur­ directly subordinate to the cfo, mr emmanuel  thomassin. 
rent status of the various audits under the annual audit plan,  in performing its tasks, the compliance department works  the internet-based communication platform that the whistle- 
significant findings of completed audits, and any still out­ closely with the other sectors of the legal department and  blower system provides enables anonymous and protected 
standing issues relating to the implementation of measures. of internal audit. this ensures a uniform, cross-functional  exchange of information and dialogue with the compliance  41
approach to appropriately  assessing and reducing risks. all  department of delivery hero through a separate mailbox. 
compliance, compliance management, and   employees of delivery hero are obliged to be mindful of  the system is confidential and protected. tip givers may 
code of conduct of delivery hero ag existing risks in their actions and to avoid risks that pose an  decide on their own whether they wish to come forward 
for delivery hero, compliance signifies the fostering of a  existential threat. under their own names or prefer to remain anonymous.
sustainable corporate culture of integrity and responsib ility. 
to accomplish this mission, we are committed to conduct­ the code of conduct of delivery hero ag is an integral part  all cases reported through the whistle-blower system are 
ing our business operations throughout the world in an  of our compliance organisation. it is a compilation of our  carefully assessed by delivery hero; when necessary, cases 
honest and ethically and legally irreproachable manner,  principles, values, standards, and rules of conduct, and it  are managed in accordance with the rules and procedures 
and we expect the same of all of our employees, directors,  serves as a guide for our employees to the behaviour required  for dealing with reported compliance violations. the confi­
executives, and business partners all over the world. for decision-making. the code has been  distributed to all  dentiality of information received through individual report­
employees of the delivery hero group worldwide and can  ing of violations is protected in so far as legally  possible. 
delivery hero has developed and implemented a com- be viewed on our website at www.deliveryhero.com, under  the responsible recipient at delivery hero will share such 
pliance management system that aims to prevent violations  “investor relations/corporate governance/compliance”, as  information with third persons, in compliance with applica­
of regulations against corruption, conflicts of interest, and  well as on our intranet. we have developed, as a supplement  ble law, only if he considers doing so necessary to eliminate 
other violations of law committed within delivery hero or  to the code of conduct, further corporate guidelines which  the violation. delivery hero respects the wish for confiden­
by delivery hero, its employees, directors, or executives.  provide detailed rules for particular  subject areas and which  tiality and anonymous reporting.
our compliance management system comprises a system  are likewise available to our employees through our intranet.
of measures intended to ensure that our business is con­
ducted at all times in full compliance with the law and with 
our internal rules and principles. the compliance efforts of 
delivery hero focus on preventing, detecting, and reacting 
appropriately to every type of misconduct.
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
constant review and further development of the  duties, lines of authority, and composition of the  risk management, and compliance that are of relevance to 
compliance management system management board the company. the management board’s reports to the 
the existing compliance management system is subject to  the management board of delivery hero ag manages the  supervisory board are regularly made in writing, in some 
continuous review and is under continuous development by  company’s business operations on its own responsibility.  cases even orally. the members of the supervisory board 
the management board in cooperation with the competent  it is duty-bound to act in the company’s interest and obliged  are supplied with the documents necessary for decision- 
departments. such continuous development ensures that  to increase on a lasting basis the company’s value as a  making in a timely manner before they meet. between 
the structures required for a functioning compliance man­ going concern. it develops the company’s strategic direc­ meetings, the management board briefs the supervisory 
agement system are always present. the management board  tion, finalises it in consultation with the supervisory board,  board monthly on current business performance. in addi­
bears overall responsibility for the proper functioning of the  and sees to its implementation. tion, the management board provides for the appropriate 
compliance management system; the super visory board  risk management and risk controlling.
monitors the system’s effectiveness. the compliance man­ the management board members perform their duties in 
agement system is actively realised in practice by the man­ accordance with the provisions of law, the company’s arti­ the management board currently consists – since delivery  
42 agement board and by the supervisory board. cles of association, the resolutions of the general meeting  hero ag was entered in the competent commercial  register 
and of the supervisory board, their contracts of service,  in connection with a change of legal form – of two people, 
and the by-laws of the management board. they manage  mr niklas östberg (chairman of the management board, 
duties, composition, and working  the company’s business with the diligence of a proper and  ceo) and mr emmanuel thomassin (cfo). the profiles of 
 methods of the management board   conscientious business manager. mr östberg and mr thomassin can be viewed on the com­
and supervisory board and of the  pany’s website (under “team/management” at www.deliv­
 supervisory board’s committees the management board works with the company’s other  eryhero.com). mr östberg and mr thomassin manage the 
bodies, in particular the supervisory board, on a basis of  company in partnership with each other and, as members 
dualistic management and control structure mutual trust for the good of the company. it sees to it that  of the management board, are jointly responsible for cor­
delivery hero ag is a joint-stock company under german  the provisions of law and the company’s internal guidelines  porate strategy and its day-to-day implementation.
law. it is therefore subject to the rules of the german stock  are complied with and works to ensure that they are 
corporation act and possesses a dualistic management and  observed by the group companies. the recommendations  the management board currently has no female members. 
control structure consisting of a management board and a  of the dcgk concerning the management board – and spe­ the two management board members’ terms of office run 
supervisory board. the management board and super- cifically its composition – are observed except as otherwise  until april 30, 2022. owing to the durations of their con­
visory board work closely together for the good of the com­ stated in the management board’s and supervisory board’s  tracts of employment as management board members and 
pany and are in regular contact with one another. the man­ statement of compliance pursuant to § 161 aktg, which is  the terms to which they have been appointed, the supervi­
agement board is the management body; it is responsible  published on the company’s website. sory board has set as the quota for women on the manage­
for the company’s direction and business management.  ment board a five-year target of 0% . the supervisory board 
the supervisory board is the company’s control and mon­ the management board discusses the current state of strat­ is, however, well aware of the special importance of diversi­
itoring body that advises and oversees the management  egy implementation with the supervisory board at regular  ty in the company’s management. a diverse make-up of 
board in its management of the company’s business. intervals. it informs the supervisory board regularly,  management and supervisory bodies can bring new per­
promptly, and comprehensively in regard to all questions  spectives to decision- making processes and discussions and 
of strategy, planning, business development, risk exposure,  help bring about a lasting improvement in performance. as 
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
far as the make-up of the management board is concerned,  each management board member manages the division  meetings of the management board take place regularly, 
the supervisory board attempts – even though profession­ assigned to him on his own responsibility. the management  as a rule weekly. in addition, the members of the manage­
al and technical qualifications are always the deciding cri­ of all divisions is uniformly aligned with the goals set by  ment board are always in close contact with one another 
terion – to take the international character and various core  resolutions of the management board. notwithstanding  between meetings. the management board, in particular 
sectors of our business model into consideration as appro­ the allocation of their duties, the members of the manage­ its chairman, likewise maintains regular contact with the 
priately as possible while at the same time honouring the  ment board jointly bear responsibility for management as  chairman of the supervisory board, briefs him on the course 
principle of diversity, particularly in regard to professional  a whole. they work together in a collegial manner and reg­ of business and the position of the company and of its 
experience and the know-how of the candidates, and it  ularly notify one another of important measures and hap­ group companies, and advises him in regard to questions 
endeavours also to give appropriate consideration to wom­ penings in their areas of responsibility. of strategy, planning, business development, risk exposure, 
en. even though the performance and qualifications weigh  risk management, and compliance. the management board 
more heavily than age as deciding factors in the selection  the schedule of responsibilities identifies as follows the  reports to the chairman of the supervisory board  promptly  
of management board members, those members must not  duties and areas of authority of the individual management  in the event of important events or business matters that 
be more than 65 years old when they are appointed. board members as of december 31, 2017 (and continuing  may have a substantial impact on an assessment of the com­ 43
thereafter): pany’s position, performance, or management.
the management board itself seeks diversity when filling 
management positions in the company and endeavours to  management board member departments members of the management board are obliged to act in 
give appropriate consideration to women in particular. the  mr niklas östberg –   business development   the company’s interest. they may not pursue personal inter­
management board has set targets for the quota of  women  (chairman of the   and strategy ests in their decisions, are subject to a comprehensive pro­
management board, ceo) –   operating business
in the two management levels below the management  hibition against competition during their employment, and 
–   personnel/hr
board. –   marketing may not take advantage of the delivery hero group’s busi­
–   technology ness opportunities for their own benefit. each management 
working methods of the management board –   product development board member must promptly disclose conflicts of interest 
–   corporate communications
the management board members’ lines of authority and  to the supervisory board and inform the other manage­
–   investor relations
their work together are governed by rules of procedure  ment board member thereof. all transactions between 
mr emmanuel  thomassin –   finances/taxes/ 
established by the supervisory board. the rules of proce­ delivery hero ag or group companies, on the one hand, 
(member of the   group accounting
dure of the management board were last updated and  management board, cfo) –   internal audit and the management board members, persons close to 
adopted by the supervisory board on may 30, 2017. they  –   procurement them, or enterprises closely associated with them, on the 
–   controlling
contain in particular provisions for the management board’s  other hand, must conform to customary industry standards. 
–   law and compliance
working methods and for its work with the supervisory  –   wages and salaries significant transactions with persons or enterprises  closely  
board; it contains in addition, inter alia, a catalogue of trans­ –   payment processing associated with a management board member may be 
actions that are subject to the supervisory board’s approv­ entered into only with the supervisory board’s consent. 
al, defines the majorities required for management board  management board members may engage in secondary 
resolutions, and specifies the matters that are reserved to  employment, particularly service on supervisory boards 
the full management board. outside of the delivery hero group, only with the super-
visory board’s consent.
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
duties, lines of authority, and composition of the  —   dr martin enderle,   the profiles of the supervisory board members can be 
supervisory board chairman of the supervisory board; viewed on the company’s website (under “team/super-
the supervisory board regularly advises and monitors the  —   mr jeffrey lieberman,   visory board” at www.deliveryhero.com). the term of office 
management board in its management of the company. it  deputy chairman of the  supervisory board; of dr enderle, mr lieberman, mr green, mr graf von walder­
appoints and dismisses the members of the management  —  mr jonathan green; see and mr kolek ends at the end of the general meeting 
board. together with the management board, the super­ —  mr georg graf von waldersee; and ratifying the acts of the members of the supervisory board 
visory board provides long-term succession planning.  —   mr patrick kolek (member of the supervisory   for financial year 2019, which is expected to be the regular 
because the members of the management board were  board since june 3, 2017 as successor to   general meeting in 2020.
appointed only in the last, financial year 2017 – and each to  mr kolja hebenstreit)
a term that ends on april 30, 2022 – the supervisory board  the supervisory board is made up exclusively of represen­
has not yet developed any guidelines for the succession of  former supervisory board member mr kolja hebenstreit  tatives of the shareholders.
management board members. the supervisory board will,  resigned from his office as member of the supervisory 
44 however, develop in the near future, jointly with the man­ board of delivery hero ag and left the supervisory board  the supervisory board of delivery hero ag has set targets 
agement board, a long-term succession plan to ensure con­ on june 3, 2017. in connection with mr hebenstreit’s resig­ for its own make-up, and it has drafted a profile of skills 
tinuous development of the company. nation, the shareholder naspers ventures b.v. exercised the  and expertise for the body as a whole by which the super­
right of dele gation to which it is entitled under § 8(1) of the  visory board aims for a composition that will ensure that 
the supervisory board performs its work in accordance  articles of association and delegated mr patrick kolek to  the management board is optimally supervised and com­
with the provisions of law, the company’s articles of asso­ the super visory board until the end of the general meet­ petently advised. the supervisory board is, accordingly, to 
ciation, and its rules of procedure. it is involved in decisions  ing ratifying the acts of management for the financial year  be constituted such that its members collectively possess 
of fundamental importance for the company. it works close­ in which the change in form of the former delivery hero  the knowledge, abilities, and technical experience neces­
ly and on a basis of mutual trust with the company’s other  gmbh to delivery hero ag took effect – that being the past,  sary for proper discharge of their duties – supervising and 
bodies, in particular the management board, for the good  financial year 2017. advising the management board. that notwithstanding, 
of the company. the recommendations of the dcgk con­ each member of the supervisory board has the knowledge, 
cerning the supervisory board – and specifically its compo­ former supervisory board member mr lukasz gadowski like­ abilities, and professional qualifications and experience he 
sition – are observed except as otherwise stated in the man­ wise resigned, by letter of december 15, 2017, from his office  needs to properly fulfil his duties and responsibilities. at 
agement board’s and supervisory board’s statement of  as member of the supervisory board of delivery hero ag  least one member of the supervisory board must have 
compliance pursuant to § 161 aktg, which is published on  and has left the supervisory board.  expertise in the fields of accounting or auditing; the mem­
the company’s website. bers of the supervisory board must as a whole be also famil­
on march 20, 2018, the management board of delivery   iar with the sector in which delivery hero ag operates. in 
the articles of association of delivery hero ag provide, that  hero ag has submitted an application to the local court of  addition, each member of the supervisory board must 
the supervisory board consist of six members. at the time  charlottenburg for the appointment of janis zech as mem­ ensure that he has sufficient time in which to discharge the 
of drafting this report, the supervisory board of delivery   ber to the supervisory board of delivery hero ag by way of  duties of his office. a maximum of two former members of 
hero ag consists of five members. they are: a judicial appointment until the end of the next annual gen­ the management board are permitted to be members of 
eral meeting. at the time of this report, the local court of  the supervisory board.
charlottenburg has not yet decided on the application. 
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
each member of the supervisory board is obliged to act in  bearing in mind the delivery hero group’s international  the members of the supervisory board must comply with 
the company’s interest. he may neither pursue personal  operations, at least three members of the supervisory board  the limit on the number of seats they are permitted to hold 
interests in his decisions nor exploit for his own benefit  are to have entrepreneurial experience in the company’s  according to section 5.4.5 sentence 2 dcgk. accordingly, a 
business opportunities to which the company is entitled.  core markets, specifically in europe, south america, the  member of the supervisory board who belongs to the board 
no candidates for election to membership on the super- near east (mena), and the asia-pacific region. the appro­ of management of a listed company may not hold more than 
visory board are to be proposed to the general meeting  priate entrepreneurial experience may be acquired in par­ a total of three supervisory board seats in listed companies 
who are simultaneously serving in positions on bodies of,  ticular through management duties in a globally-operating  outside the group, or in supervisory bodies of companies 
or performing advisory duties for, significant competitors.  company or by working as an advisor. outside the group, that impose comparable requirements.
nor are any candidates to be proposed to the general meet­
ing who (potentially) are permanently or frequently subject  at least three members of the supervisory board – which  it is the conviction of the supervisory board that the com­
to a conflict of interest. a supervisory board member must  currently is made up exclusively of shareholders, see above –  position described ensures independent and efficient advis­
disclose possible conflicts of interest to the supervisory  are to be independent as defined in section 5.4.2 sentence 2  ing and supervising of the management board. in regard 
board. conflicts of interest that occur must be handled  dcgk. according to that definition, a super visory board  to the current state of implementation for the composition  45
appropriately; the supervisory board will provide informa­ member is not to be regarded as independent if he or she is  of the supervisory board, the following should be noted: 
tion about them in its report to the general meeting. sig­ in a personal or business relationship with delivery hero ag,  the concrete objectives specified by the supervisory board 
nificant, and not merely temporary, conflicts of interest in  its bodies, a controlling shareholder, or a company affiliat­ for its composition and the desired realisation of the pro­
the person of a supervisory board member are to result in  ed therewith that may create a significant, and not merely  file of skills and expertise were achieved in full in financial 
termination of his tenure. temporary, conflict of interest. at present there is an age  year 2017. the shareholders’ representatives on the super-
limit of 70 years for supervisory board members, from which  visory board who are independent within the meaning of 
it is the avowed aim of the supervisory board that its mem­ there may be an exemption in certain justified cases, since  section 5.4.2 dcgk are dr martin enderle, georg graf von 
bers possess the expertise and diversity necessary to dis­ the most important factor for appointment to membership  walderse, patrick kolek, jonathan green and jeffrey lieber-
charge as well as possible the supervisory and advisory  on the supervisory board is a candidate’s professional and  man. the supervisory board verifies at regular intervals 
duties that are incumbent upon the supervisory board.  technical qualifications, which are not dependent on age.  that the goals for the composition of the supervisory board 
accordingly, the most important criteria for appointment  as a rule, a supervisory board member must not belong to  and realisation of the profile of skills and expertise contin­
to membership on the supervisory board of delivery hero ag  the supervisory board for longer than 15 continuous years;  ue to be achieved.
are a candidate’s professional qualifications and experience  from this, too, there may be an exemption in certain justi­
and his or her existing technical knowledge and expertise.  fied cases. proposals submitted by the supervisory board to the gen­
at the same time, the greatest possible diversity of experi­ eral meeting for the election of supervisory board mem­
ence and special know-how from the most diverse fields  bers take these goals into account while aiming at the same 
are to be represented on the supervisory board. to that  time for continuous realisation of the profile of skills and 
end the supervisory board is to reflect well-balanced mea­ expertise for the body as a whole. in its election proposals 
sure of diversity particularly in respect of the internation­ to the general meeting, the supervisory board discloses 
ality of its members, their experience and disparate profes­ every single candidate’s personal and business relationships 
sional histories and backgrounds. the supervisory board  with the company, the bodies of delivery hero ag, and any 
has set a target for the quota of women on the super visory  shareholder with a significant interest in the company.
board.
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
working methods of the supervisory board composition and working methods of the   the working methods of the audit committee are  provided 
the supervisory board has given itself rules of procedures.  audit committee for in the rules of procedure of the supervisory board and 
these provide for, in particular, the working methods of  the audit committee prepares, inter alia, the proceedings  in the audit committee’s own rules of procedure.
the supervisory board and its committees and their divi­ and resolutions of the supervisory board relating to the 
sion of duties. the rules of procedure of the supervisory  audit and approval of the annual financial statements and  composition and working methods of the 
board were last updated and adopted by the supervisory  approval of the consolidated financial statements, as well   remuneration committee
board on may 30, 2017. the chairman of the supervisory  as those relating to the management board’s draft propos­ the remuneration committee concerns itself in particular 
board coordinates the work of the supervisory board and  al for the use of net retained profits and to the super visory  with the system for remunerating the management board, 
presides over its meetings; he looks after the interests of  board’s proposal to the general meeting for the selection  with the amount of remuneration to be paid to the individ­
the supervisory board externally. resolutions of the super­ of an auditor. in addition, the audit committee devotes  ual management board members – in each case in relation 
visory board are normally taken in meetings. the super- particular attention to monitoring the accounting, the  to the duties and services of the management board mem­
visory board holds at least two meetings per calendar half- accounting process, the effectiveness of the internal con­ ber and to the position of the company – and with all o ther 
46 year. further meetings are convened as required.  trol system, the risk management system, the internal audit  remuneration-related issues that are subject to the super­
resolutions may be taken outside of meetings as well, for  system, the final audit – particularly the selection and inde­ visory board’s approval. in this connection the remunera­
example in writing or by fax or e-mail. pendence of the auditor and the additional services per­ tion committee supports the activities of the full super-
formed by the auditor – and compliance. the audit com­ visory board and prepares appropriate resolutions for its 
the supervisory board regularly reviews the efficiency of  mittee also discusses the audit reports with the auditor  plenary sessions.
its activities. the subject matter of its efficiency reviews is  along with the auditor’s findings and makes recommenda­
in particular, besides certain qualitative criteria, the proce­ tions to the supervisory board in respect thereof. the members of the remuneration committee are:
dures followed by the supervisory board along with the 
timeliness of the information it receives and the adequacy  the members of the audit committee are: —  mr jeffrey lieberman and
of the content thereof. the review is conducted as a self-  —  dr martin enderle.
evaluation on the basis of extensive questionnaires along  —  mr georg graf von waldersee (chairman) and
with a subsequent intensive consideration and discussion  —  dr martin enderle. the working methods of the remuneration committee 
of the results in a plenary session of the supervisory board.   follow the rules of procedure of the supervisory board.
at present no significant efficiency deficits are known to  the chairman of the audit committee, mr graf von walder­
exist. the members of the supervisory board  independently  see, possesses the expertise required according to §§ 100(5),  composition and working methods of the 
take part in the training and continuing education programs  107(4) aktg in the fields of accounting or auditing along   nominating committee
required for their duties, and their participation therein is  with special knowledge and experience in the application  the nominating committee is made up exclusively of 
appropriately supported by the company. of accounting standards and internal control procedures.   representatives of the shareholders and gives the super-
in addition, mr graf von waldersee is independent and not  visory board the names of suitable candidates for the super-
the supervisory board has set up three committees in accor­ a former member of the company’s management board.  visory board to propose to the general meeting for elec­
dance with the recommendations of the dcgk: an audit  the members of the audit committee are as a whole famil­ tion to membership on the supervisory board. in doing so 
committee, a remuneration committee, and a nominating  iar with the sector in which delivery hero ag operates. it considers the supervisory board’s concrete targets for its 
committee. the committee chairmen report regularly and  own composition while at the same time endeavouring to 
comprehensively to the full supervisory board on the work  realise the profile of skills and expertise for the body as a 
of the committees. whole.
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
the members of the nominating committee are: board intends to continue – as before – pursuing a suitable  the supervisory board is aware, however, of the impor­
policy of promoting women to continually increase the pro­ tance of diversity, and specifically of the special importance 
—  mr jeffrey lieberman and portion of women in management positions. for the first  of the participation of women in management and super­
—  dr martin enderle. level below the management board, the management  visory positions. accordingly, the supervisory board aims 
board has set a five-year target of 0%, which has been  to give women appropriate consideration in future when 
the working methods of the nominating committee follow  achieved. for the second level below the management  filling positions on the management board and the super­
the rules of procedure of the supervisory board. board, the management board has set a five-year target of  visory board.
18%, which also has been achieved.
remuneration of the members of the 
 management board and supervisory board and   owing to the duration of their contracts of employment as  gender quota compliance in respect of 
of the members of the committees management board members and the terms to which the  appointments to the supervisory board
in regard to the remuneration paid to members of the man­ two management board members have been appointed,  the fixed gender quota does not apply to the supervisory 
agement board and supervisory board and to members of  which end on april, 30 2022, the supervisory board has set  board of delivery hero ag, which currently only consists of  47
the committees, reference is made to the detailed remuner­ a five-year target of 0% for the quota of women on the  shareholder representatives. according to § 96(2) sentence 
ation report that constitutes a part of the combined man­ management board. the supervisory board is of the  opinion  1 aktg, the fixed gender quota is applicable only to listed 
agement report. the remuneration report contains also con­ that, for an appointment to membership on the manage­ companies to which the german employee co-determina­
crete particulars of the company’s existing stock option  ment board of delivery hero ag, the best possible profes­ tion act (mitbestimmungsgesetz) (mitbestg) actually 
program and similar securities-oriented incentive systems. sional and technical qualifications are the paramount  applies, the crucial factor always being the company’s actu­
 consideration, not gender. in view of the fact that the man­ al state of compliance with co-determination law. any devi­
agement board is currently constituted exclusively of men,  ating normative target state is irrelevant until the legally 
targets pursuant to § 76(4) and § 111(5) aktg the  target of 0% has been achieved. effective conclusion of the current status procedure 
according to § 76(4) sentence 1 aktg, the management  (delivery hero ag ./. dr konrad erzberger). given the deci­
board must set targets for the quota of women in the two  the same applies to the setting of a target for the quota of  sion that delivery hero ag has already taken to change its 
management levels below the management board. accord­ women on the supervisory board; this the supervisory  legal form to that of a european stock corporation (socie­
ing to § 111(5) sentence 1 aktg, the supervisory board must  board has likewise set at 0% in five years. in this regard,  tas europaea, “se”), the company will observe the require­
likewise set targets for the quota of women on the super­ too, the supervisory board is of the opinion that the best  ments pertinent to this change of legal form for the gender 
visory board and on the management board. possible qualification of a candidate for a seat on the super­ quota for new appointments of one or more seats at the 
visory board must be evaluated according to many differ­ supervisory board in the (future) delivery hero se.
delivery hero attaches great importance to diversity  ent criteria and not exclusively according to gender. in view 
throughout the company and regards the participation of  of the fact that the supervisory board is currently constitut­
women at the managerial levels as a key aspect of a diverse  ed exclusively of men, the target of 0% has been achieved.
employment structure. that being so, the management 
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
diversity plan corporate governance practice and  reportable transactions with financial 
diversity is firmly embedded in the corporate culture of  transparency  instruments (“managers’ transactions”)
delivery hero ag and its group companies. all dimensions  persons who discharge managerial duties, along with 
of diversity exist on an equal footing at delivery hero, be  shareholders and the general meeting  persons closely related to them, report to the company and 
they, for example, age, gender, educational background or  the shareholders exercise their co-management and con­ to the german federal financial supervisory authority 
profession, origin or religion, or sexual orientation or iden­ trol rights in the general meeting, where they also exercise  (“bafin”) every transaction on their own account with shares 
tity. the management and supervisory board of delivery   their voting rights. the general meeting is chaired, in accor­ or – if they exist – any debt instruments of the company, or 
hero ag regard it as their duty to further increase – beyond  dance with the articles of association, by the chairman of  derivatives linked to them, or other financial instruments 
setting targets for the quota of women on the management  the supervisory board or by another supervisory board  linked to them no later than three business days after the 
board and supervisory board and in management posi­ member designated by him. each share confers one vote.  date of the transaction. this applies from the date on which 
tions – the various aspects of diversity and to use them pro­ on the basis of its statutory duties, the general meeting  the total amount resulting from the transactions reaches a 
ductively. decides, inter alia, on the use of net retained profits, rati- total volume of € 5,000.00 within one calendar year. the 
48 fication of the acts of the management board and super- company has made certain that the notifications it receives 
to date the company has not pursued a diversity concept  visory board, appointment of the auditor, election of super­ are promptly, but likewise no later than within the three-
of its own in respect of the composition of the manage­ visory board members, and capital or structural measures. day limit, published and sent to the register of companies. 
ment board and supervisory board. however, the inner  the company also notifies the bafin of their publication.
manifestation and further development of an open and  we wish to support the shareholders as much as possible 
integrative corporate culture occupies a position of major  in the exercise of their rights in the general meeting. all  we have published notices of such transactions under 
importance in the daily work of the management board  documents and information relating to the general meet­ “investor relations/news/managers’ transactions” on our 
and supervisory board. in this connection the management  ing are quickly made available – normally in german and  website at www.deliveryhero.com.
board and supervisory board intend to work out a  diversity  english – to any interested party on the company’s website 
plan for their own composition, one that addresses key  www.deliveryhero.com after the general meeting is con­ directors and officers liability insurance  
aspects of diversity, defines specific targets for them, and  vened. (d&o insurance)
contains provisions for the manner in which they are to be  the company has taken out consequential loss liability 
implemented and achieved. shareholders have the option of exercising their voting  insurance (known as “d&o insurance”) for the members of 
rights in the general meeting themselves or having it exer­ the management board and supervisory board. the insur­
cised by an authorised agent of their choice. the manage­ ance covers personal liability risk in the event that manage­
ment board also takes care of appointing a representative  ment board or supervisory board members are held liable 
for the exercise of a shareholder’s voting rights according  for financial losses in performing their services. pursuant 
to the shareholder’s instructions (voting rights representa­ to the statutory provision in § 93(2) sentence 3 aktg, a 
tives appointed by the company); this representative will  deductible of 10% of the loss, up to one-and-a-half times 
be available during the general meeting. the fixed annual remuneration, is stipulated in the d&o 
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
 policy for the management board. no similar deductible  the relevant information is available in german and english  the semi-annual financial report and the quarterly bulletin 
has been stipulated for the supervisory board since the  on the company’s website at www.deliveryhero.com. in  for the third quarter were initially discussed, before publi­
management board and supervisory board are of the  this framework all new facts of material importance that  cation, by the audit committee with the company’s cfo, 
 opinion that a deductible has no effect on supervisory  have been reported to the financial analysts and compara­ mr emmanuel thomassin. both the semi-annual financial 
board members’ sense of responsibility or loyalty in regard  ble recipients are always quickly made available to the  report and the quarterly bulletin for the third quarter were 
to their duties and positions. moreover, the company’s  shareholders. then discussed by the management board jointly with the 
 ability to recruit competent and qualified supervisory board  supervisory board prior to their publication.
members would be limited by the stipulation of a deduct­ the company’s management board must, according to  german  
ible. law, take a “balance sheet oath”. confirmation of the state­ kpmg will promptly report any possible grounds for exclu­
ments required for it is given to the management board by  sion or reasons for bias that arise during the audit if they 
transparent corporate governance individual executives of the group in an internal proceeding.  are not promptly eliminated. the auditor is also to report 
the shares of delivery hero ag are listed on the prime stan­ promptly on all findings and happenings of material impor­
dard segment of the frankfurt stock exchange. the com­ accounting and auditing tance for the duties of the supervisory board that come to  49
pany is therefore subject to the most stringent t ransparency   the unaudited semi-annual financial report as of june 30,  the auditor’s knowledge as the audit is being performed. 
requirements according to statute and stock exchange law.  2017 and the consolidated financial statements as of decem­ it is likewise agreed that the auditor will inform the super­
delivery hero ag reports in german and english on the  ber 31, 2017 were or are drawn up according to the interna­ visory board, or so note in the audit report, if, when audit­
position and performance of the company and group in  tional financial reporting standards (ifrs) as applicable in  ing the financial statements, he ascertains facts that reveal 
the form of: the eu. the consolidated financial statements contain in  inaccuracy in the statement of compliance issued by the 
addition the disclosures that are required according to  management board and supervisory board pursuant to 
—   annual financial reports, management reports,  § 315a(1) hgb. the annual financial statements of delivery   § 161aktg.
 balance sheet press conferences, semi-annual  hero ag for financial year 2017 were drawn up according to 
 financial reports; the provisions of the german commercial code (hgb) and 
—   quarterly bulletins for the first and third quarters; the provisions of the german stock corporation act (aktg).
—   company presentations, road shows and telephone 
conferences; kpmg ag wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, berlin (“kpmg”) 
—   ad hoc, company and ir releases: was chosen for financial year 2017 as auditor of the annual 
—   annual statements of compliance with the dcgk; and financial statements and consolidated financial statements. 
—   as occasioned by the annual financial calendar. the undersigning auditors for the 2017 annual and consoli-
dated financial statements of delivery hero ag are marius 
sternberg and björn knorr.
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
takeover-related disclosures   lock-up agreement dated june 5, 2017. the vesting  there may be voting right restrictions that go beyond this 
and explanatory notes by the  period ends at the conclusion of june 30, 2018. arising from the stock corporation act, such as section 136 
 management board —   lock-up agreements and corresponding supplemen- aktg or capital market law provisions, in particular sec­
tary agreements mean that a total of 2,326,797 shares  tions 33 et seq. of the german securities trading act 
these takeover-related disclosures and explanatory notes  are subject to a (extended) vesting period of a total of  (wertpapier handelsgesetz – wphg).
by the management board constitutes part of the combined  270 days from the first day of company shares being 
management report 2017 traded on the stock exchange. the vesting period 
ended at the conclusion of march 27, 2018. shareholdings exceeding 10%  
of voting rights
composition of subscribed capital restrictions on voting rights  at the end of the financial year 2017, the following direct 
at the end of the reporting period, the company’s subscribed  according to the understanding of the management board  and indirect holdings in delivery hero ag exceeded the 
capital amounts to € 182,498,900.00, which is subdivided  of the company, the restrictions on voting rights as stated  10% voting rights threshold:
50 into 182,498,900 no-par value bearer shares.  by the law on obligations are as follows: 
—  naspers ventures b.v. (direct);
there are no different share classes. the same rights and  —   pursuant to sections 71b and 71d aktg, there are no  —   naspers limited (indirect) with registered seat  
obligations are associated with all shares. each share grants  voting rights with respect to 20,300 shares in the  in cape town, south africa;
one vote and determines the shareholder’s share in the prof­ company. —  global online takeaway group s.a. (direct);
its. shares held by the company itself, which do not grant  —   in accordance with section 136 aktg, members of the  —   rocket internet se (indirect) with registered seat  
the company any rights in accordance with section 71b of  management board are restricted in exercising their  in berlin, germany.
the german stock corporation act (aktiengesetz – aktg),  voting rights with respect to the approximately 
are excluded from this. 947,512 shares in the company held by them, or which  the stated shareholdings with regard to naspers ventures 
are held in trust on their behalf. b.v. and naspers limited are not yet considering the pub­
—   there is an agreement between the shareholders who  lication of the company for the total voting rights 
restrictions that concern voting rights  had invested in the company before the ipo to the  announcement pursuant to § 41 wphg of december 7, 2017.
or the transfer of shares effect that they may exercise their voting rights at the 
first general meeting following the ipo at which the  further information on the amount of the holdings listed 
restrictions on transfer supervisory board will be newly elected in such a way  above can be found in the disclosures on voting right noti­
according to the understanding of the management board  as to determine the composition and term of office of  fications (in the notes to the delivery hero ag 2017 annual 
of the company, the restrictions on transfer as stated by  the supervisory board, provided that this general  financial statements as well as the “voting rights notifica­
the law on obligations are as follows:  meeting takes place before the end of 2019. specifi­ tions” item on the company’s website at https://ir.delive­
cally, the period of office agreed by the shareholders  ryhero.com/websites/delivery/english/6400/vot­
—   in the context of the company’s ipo, a vesting period  will end when the supervisory board is discharged for  ing-rights-notifications.html.
of twelve months from the first trading day has been  the second complete financial year following the ipo.
agreed with the members of the management board 
and their associated companies regarding a total of 
approximately one million shares in the company in a 
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
before the end of the reporting period, the total number  is absent, the court must, in urgent cases and at the request  company to the lenders or their successors, respectively, 
of voting rights changed due to a capital increase imple­ of an involved party, appoint another member; see sec­ under the so called loan and escrow agreement entered 
mented in december 2017. following a newly issued voting  tion 85(1), s. 1 aktg. if there is cause to do so, the super- into on august 7, 2014, as amended from time to time, on 
rights notification, the capital shares stated on the compa­ visory board may revoke the appointment of the member  the basis of such loan and escrow agreement and under 
ny’s website only include the changes with respect to the  of the management board as well as the designation as  the so called second loan agreement entered into on 
holdings by global online takeaway group s.a./rocket  chair of the management board, see section 84,(3), ss. 1  august 31/september 1, 2015, as amended from time to time, 
internet se. and 2 aktg. on the basis of such second loan agreement. 
amendments to the articles of association are made by  the management board of the company is authorized to 
shares with special rights conferring   resolution of the general meeting in accordance with sec­ increase the registered capital of the company until june 8, 
powers of control tion 18(2) of the articles of association, requiring a simple  2022, with the consent of the supervisory board once or 
there are no shares with special rights conferring powers  majority of the capital represented when the resolution is  repeatedly, by up to a total of € 8,158,550.00 by the issuance 
of control. voted upon. changes to the purpose of the company  of up to 8,158,550 new no-par value registered shares against  51
require a majority where at least three quarters of the share  contributions in cash (authorized capital/iii). the subscrip­
capital is represented when the resolution is voted upon. tion rights of the shareholders are excluded.
statutory requirements and provisions  
in the a  rticles of association regarding  in accordance with section 10(4) of the articles of associ­ the management board of the company is authorized to 
nomination and dismissal of members of  ation, the supervisory board is authorized to make edito­ increase the registered capital of the company until june 8, 
the management board, and amendments  rial changes to the articles of association by resolution. 2022, with the consent of the supervisory board once or 
to the articles of association repeatedly, by up to a total of € 10,918,200.00 by the issu­
in accordance with section 6(1) of the articles of associa­ ance of up to 10,918,200 new no-par value registered shares 
tion, the management board consists of one or more indi­ powers of the management board in  against contributions in cash (authorized capital/iv). the 
viduals. the number of individuals is determined by the   particular with respect to the possibility  subscription rights of the shareholders are excluded. the 
supervisory board. the management board of delivery   of issuing or buying back shares authorized capital/iv serves the fulfilment of acquisition 
hero ag currently consists of two individuals. in accordance  the management board of the company is authorized to  rights (option rights) which have been granted or promised 
with sections 84 and 85 aktg, and section 6(3) of the arti­ increase the registered capital of the company until june 8,  by the company to current or former employees and man­
cles of association, the supervisory board appoints the  2022 with the consent of the supervisory board once or  aging directors of the company and its affiliated companies, 
members of the management board for a maximum term  repeatedly, by up to a total of € 882,300.00 by the issuance  members of the supervisory board of the company and fur­
of five years. individuals may be reappointed. if multiple  of up to 882,300 new no-par value registered shares against  ther beneficiaries who are or were acting for the company 
individuals are appointed to the management board, the  contributions in cash (authorized capital/ii). the subscrip­ or its affiliated companies, in order to replace the hitherto 
supervisory board may designate a chair as well as a dep­ tion rights of the shareholders are excluded. the autho­ existing virtual share program (vsp) of the company with 
uty chair, pursuant to section 6(2) of the articles of asso­ rized capital/ii serves as security for subscription rights for  effect as of april 21, 2017; shares out of the authorized cap­
ciation. if an essential member of the management board  shares that are issued in the course of the financing of the  ital/iv may only be issued for this purpose. 
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
the management board of the company is authorized to  consent of the supervisory board once or repeatedly, by up  or income bonds (or a combination of these instruments), 
increase the registered capital of the company until june 8,  to a total of € 25,000,000.00 by the issuance of up to  issued on the basis of the authorizing resolution of the gen­
2022, with the consent of the supervisory board once or  25,000,000 new no-par value registered shares against con­ eral meeting of june 13, 2017.
repeatedly, by up to a total of € 18,675,300.00 by the issu­ tributions in cash and/or non-cash contributions (authorized 
ance of up to 18,675,300 new no-par value registered shares  capital/vii). the subscription rights of the shareholders are  in accordance with authorization by the general meeting of 
against contributions in cash (authorized capital/v). the  only excluded in certain cases or can only be  excluded by the  june 13, 2017 under agenda item 4, lit. a), the share capital 
subscription rights of the shareholders are excluded. the  management board with the consent of the super visory  of the company is conditionally increased by € 3,485,000.00 
authorized capital/v serves the fulfilment of contractual  board. by issuing up to 3,485,000 new no-par value registered 
claims, already agreed upon prior to january 1, 2017, of those  shares of the company with a fractional amount of the reg­
shareholders who have subscribed for new shares in  on december 5, 2017, the management board resolved to  istered share capital of € 1.00 per share (conditional capital 
delivery hero gmbh (prior to the conversion into delivery   use authorized capital vii under section 4(8) of the articles  2017/ii). the conditional capital 2017/ii serves to secure sub­
hero ag) based on the resolution dated december 4 to 9,  of association to increase the company’s share capital by  scription rights from stock options issued by the company 
52 2016 for an increase of the nominal share capital; shares out  up to € 10,500,000.00 from € 171,998,900.00 to a maximum  under the authorization of the general meeting of june 13, 
of the authorized capital/v may only be issued for this pur­ of € 182,498,900.00 by the issuance of up to 10,500,000  2017, under agenda intem 4, lit. a) as part of the stock option 
pose. new no-par value registered shares against contributions  program 2017/ii from the date of the registration of condi­
of cash. the final number of new shares to be issued was  tional capital 2017/ii until june 30, 2020 to members of the 
the management board of the company is authorized to  set at 10,500,000 units by resolution of the management  management board of the company, members of manag­
increase the registered capital of the company until june 8,  board on december 6, 2017. the capital increase and its  ing corporate bodies of affiliated companies as well as 
2022, with the consent of the supervisory board once or  implementation were entered in the commercial register  selected executives and employees of the company or affil­
repeatedly, by up to a total of € 12,890,100.00 by the issu­ on december 6, 2017. following partial use, authorized cap­ iated companies in germany and abroad. 
ance of up to 12,890,100 new no-par value registered shares  ital amounting to € 14,500,000.00 remained at the end of 
against contributions in cash (authorized capital/vi). the  the reporting period. the complete version of these authorizations is set out in 
subscription rights of the shareholders are excluded. the  the company’s articles of association in the version of 
authorized capital/vi serves the fulfilment of contractual  the share capital of the company is conditionally increased  december 6, 2017. the current version of the articles of asso­
claims of those shareholders who have subscribed for new  by up to € 61,219,560.00 by issuing up to 61,219,560 new  ciation of the company is available in the sub-section “arti­
shares in delivery hero ag based on the resolution of the  no-par value registered shares of the company with a frac­ cles of association” on the company’s website at https://
general meeting dated may 29, 2017 for an increase of the  tional amount of the registered share capital of € 1.00 per  ir.deliveryhero.com/websites/delivery/german/4400/satz­
registered share capital; shares out of the authorized cap­ share (conditional capital 2017/i). the conditional capital  ung.html.
ital/vi may only be issued for this purpose. increase serves the granting of shares on the exercise of 
conversion or option rights or the fulfilment of conversion  subject to approval by the supervisory board and whilst 
the management board was originally authorized to increase  or option obligations to the holders or creditors of convert­ upholding the principle of equality (section 53a, aktg), the 
the share capital of the company until june 8, 2022, with the  ible bonds, warrant bonds, profit participation rights and/ management board is (or respectively – regarding the autho­
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
rization to take their own shares as security – was), autho­ compensation agreements concluded   compensation report pursuant to  
rized, through june 12, 2022, to acquire shares to be held  by the company with members of the  §§ 289a(2), 315a(2) hgb
by the company itself up to a total of 10% of the company   management board or employees for  
share capital existing at the time of the resolution or – if  the event of a takeover bid this compensation report pursuant to §§ 289a(2), 315a(2) 
this value is smaller – of the share capital existing at the  in the event of a change of control, members of the man­ hgb constitutes part of the combined management report 
time that the authorization is exercised, or – subject to the  agement board are entitled to resign from their position  2017 and also forms a component of the corporate gover­
time limit to june 30, 2017 – to take the same as security.  within three months of the date of the change of control,  nance report with the declaration of compliance.
together with other shares held by the company itself and  subject to a notice period of three months to the end of a 
which the company has already acquired or taken as secu­ calendar month. resignation from the management board  the following compensation report complies with the 
rity and still owns, or which are attributed to it in accor­ becoming effective results in termination of the respective  accounting standards for capital market-oriented companies 
dance with section 71a et seq. aktg, the shares acquired  board member’s contract of employment.  (german commercial code, german accounting standards, 
under the above-mentioned authorization and taken as  and international financial reporting standards) along with 
security must not exceed 10% of the respective share capi­ in the case of resignation from office following a change of  the recommendations of the german corporate governance  53
tal in the company at any time. this authorization may be  control, management board member mr emmanuel thom­ code (deutscher corporate governance kodex) in the ver­
exercised by the company once or multiple times, fully or  assin is entitled to compensation in the amount of 150% of  sion of february 7, 2017 (hereinafter the “dcgk”). the basic 
in partial amounts, for a single or multiple purposes, but  the severance cap, which may not exceed the remaining  features of the compensation system for management and 
also by group companies or third parties for the account of  term of the service agreement (coc-cap). in the case of res­ supervisory board members are described, and information 
the company or group companies. the authorization must  ignation from office following a change of control, the  is provided on the remuneration granted and paid out to 
not be exercised for the purpose of trading the company’s  incentive instruments held by management board members  the members of the management board and the super visory 
own shares. mr niklas östberg and mr emmanuel thomassin (such as  board of delivery hero ag during the 2017 financial year. 
convertible bonds and stock options) become vested or are  because the system for compensating the management 
immediately allocated. in the case of mr thomassin, the  board was revised in connection with the ipo in 2017, a look 
material company agreements that are  coc-cap is also applicable in this respect. the employment  ahead is taken to the new compensation system that has 
subject to the condition of a change of  contracts for each of the management board members pro­ taken effect in the financial year 2018.
control resulting from a takeover bid  vide for payments in lieu of vacation in the event of resig­
and subsequent effects nation from office following a change of control. 
there are no material company agreements that are sub­
ject to the condition of a change of control resulting from  the employment contracts for members of the manage­
a takeover bid. ment board do not provide for any other compensation in 
the event of the termination of the employment due to a 
change of control. there are no similar compensation 
agreements with other company employees.
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
basic features and objectives of the  fringe benefits under the sop 2017 the beneficiaries receive stock option 
 compensation system for members of   in addition to reimbursement of their travel costs and  other  rights that have an individual exercise price that depends 
the management board business-related expenses, the management board mem­ on the date on which those rights are granted. the vesting 
the supervisory board adopts the system for compens ating  bers receive monthly contributions to their health and nurs­ period of the granted options is four years. in part, the grant­
management board members as proposed by the compen­ ing care insurance as provided by law. ed stock options can be exercised after the first two years 
sation committee. the compensation system and the appro­ of the vesting period (“cliff”). all other options vest during 
priateness of the total compensation, along with the indi­ the company also grants the management board members  the further two years of the vesting period. the latest point 
vidual compensation components, are regularly reviewed  accident insurance with cover in the amount of € 350,000  in time for exercising any options is two years after the end 
and adjusted as necessary. in particular, the provisions of  in the case of death and € 800,000 in the case of disabi lity.  of the four-year vesting period (“exercise period”). such 
§ 87 aktg (aktiengesetz, german stock corporation act)  additionally, the company assumes the costs of a preven­ exercise is possible only if the share price is higher than the 
and the recommendations and suggestions made in section  tive medical examination every two years. exercise price at the time of exercise. in lieu of issuing new 
4.2.2 and 4.2.3 of the dcgk have been taken into account.  shares in the event that option rights are exercised, the com­
54 in its review of the appropriateness of the compensation  in addition, mr östberg has been granted a personal bud­ pany reserves the right of making a cash payment to the 
level and system, the supervisory board of delivery hero ag  get amounting to € 25,000 annually, which he may use, sub­ beneficiaries, the company regularly aims at an equity settle-
was assisted by an independent external compensation  ject to presentation of receipts, to cover the costs he incurs  ment of the vested options. the beneficiary then receives 
expert. by regularly commuting between his place of residence and  for each option right a cash settlement amounting to the 
place of work. in connection with his service agreement as  difference between the share price at the time of exercise 
manager of the delivery hero gmbh the costs incurred by  and the exercise price. only during the exercise periods 
the structure of the compensation system commuting where covered without limitation. specified by the company it is possible to exercise the option 
the compensation system for management board members  rights. it is not possible to exercise them during the first year 
consists of two main components: the non-performance-  after the ipo.
based base salary and a long-term performance-based com­ performance-based compensation
pensation component. this means that variable compensa­ share-based compensation special compensation
tion is provided for on a multi-year basis as recommended  until the time of the ipo, the performance-based compensa­ during the financial year mr thomassin was granted a special 
by the dcgk. tion consisted of a vsp. the management board members  bonus in the amount of € 200,000 to reward his extraordi­
received virtual shares from the company’s vsp. in connec­ nary efforts in connection with the ipo process. this ipo bonus 
tion with the ipo, all of the company’s vsp were consolidated,  is being paid in two tranches: 25% paid in the month follow­
non-performance-based compensation and the outstanding virtual shares were converted into option  ing the ipo, the remaining 75% only after a year has passed 
base salary rights. the stock option program 2017 (sop 2017) was  since the ipo and in case mr thomassin’s service agreement 
the base salary of the management board members is paid  launched in its stead. for the conversion into option rights  with delivery hero ag is still active at that point in time. 
in twelve monthly instalments. and the grant of new option rights under the sop 2017, the  further more, in the first quarter of 2017, mr thomassin was 
general meeting-authorised share capital iv was used1.  granted a one-time special payment in the amount of € 10,000.
1 d etailed information about sop 2017 and as yet outstanding option rights are 
contained in the section h.01. of the consolidated financial s tatements.
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
pension commitments —   the company is de-listed; loans and advances
no arrangement has been made with the management board  —   the management board member’s appointment is ter­ the management board members received no advances or 
members for a company pension. minated by a change in the company’s form or by a  loans in financial year 2017.
merger of the company with another company, unless 
an appointment as member of the management board 
payments at the end of the   of the new company on equal economic terms as  disclosures pursuant to the  
management board service before is offered to the management board member; requirements of the dcgk
in the event that a management board member dies before  —   an inter-company agreement according to §§ 291 et  the following tables follow the recommendations of the 
the term of his service contract ends, the spouse of the  seqq. aktg is made with the company as a dependent  dcgk and show each management board members’ indi­
deceased is entitled to a grant of the unreduced remuner­ company, or the company is absorbed according to  vidual compensation. the table “granted benefits” does 
ation for the month of death and the six months following  §§ 319 et seqq. aktg; not show the compensation that was actually paid but rath­
it, but for no longer than until the end of the original term  —   a shareholder or third party directly or indirectly  er the target values (the value of the compensation at 100% 
of the service contract. acquires at least 30% of the voting rights in the com­ target achievement) of the compensation components that  55
pany, including the voting rights that are attributable  were granted in financial year 2017. the value of the per­
if the service relationship ends early owing to dismissal or  to the shareholder or third party according to § 30  formance-based, share-based compensation components 
resignation from office, because the company’s legal form  wpüg (wertpapiererwerbs- und übernahmegesetz,  equates to the fair value at the time of their granting. 
is changed to that of a societas europaea, or as a result of  german securities acquisition and takeover act). besides the target values, minimum and maximum com­
a termination agreement, then the management board  pensation figures are also shown. the table “payout” shows 
members are entitled to severance pay. this does not apply  in the event of a resignation from office or dismissal owing  the compensation actually paid (and hence accruing) in 
in the event that, in accordance with § 626 bgb, the com­ to a change of control, mr thomassin is entitled to a remu­ financial year 2017. the values “base salary” and “fringe 
pany terminates the employment agreement for good cause  neration in the amount of 150% of the severance cap, which  benefits” correspond to the values in the “granted bene­
for which the management board member is responsible,  may not under any circumstances remunerate more than  fits” table, as they are paid irrespective of whether the per­
respectively, in the event that the management board mem­ the remaining term of the employment agreement. this  formance targets are achieved.
ber terminates the employment agreement without good  provision is likewise devised in accordance with the rele­
cause (§ 626 bgb) for which the company is responsible.  vant recommendation of the dcgk.
the severance pay may not exceed the value of two years’ 
total compensation and may equate at a maximum to the  the management board members’ contracts provide a post- 
compensation for the remaining term of contract (sever­ contractual non-competition clause for two years. for the 
ance pay cap). the severance provision thus accords with  duration of this prohibition , a waiting allowance is provid­
the recommendation of the dcgk. ed in the amount of 50% of the remuneration last received 
by the management board member concerned.  other  remu­
in the event of a change of control, the management board  neration earned during the term of the competition ban is 
member has the right to resign from his office with three  applied against the waiting allowance as far as the waiting 
months’ notice. his employment agreement also will end  allowance would exceed the remuneration last received 
at that time. a change of control is present if: according to contract once the income from  other sources 
is added to them.
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
granted benefits for the reporting year mr östberg was not granted any virtual shares or stock 
options during the financial year 2017, as he still holds stock 
niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin options from former grants which have not fully vested yet. 
ceo cfo
furthermore, no previously granted compensation compo­
k eur 2017 2017 (min) 2017 (max) 2017 2017 (min) 2017 (max) nents were exercised during the financial year. there are 
  still outstanding options, which have been granted in pre­
base salary 181.2 181.2 181.2 222.5 222.5 222.5 vious years but have not yet been exercised and may be 
fringe benefits 31.3 0.0 n.a. 0.0 0.0 0.0 exercised during the financial year 2018 or the following 
total 212.5 181.2 181.2 222.5 222.5 222.5 years. mr t homassin holds options, which have not yet been 
exercised, as well.
special bonus 0.0 0.0 0.0 210.01 0.0 210.0
multi-year variable compensation 0.0 0.0 0.0 1,344.8 0.0 n.a.
vsp 2016 0.0 0.0 0.0 482.3 0.0 n.a.
56 disclosures pursuant to the hbg
sop 2017 0.0 0.0 0.0 862.5 0.0 n.a. according to the applicable international accounting stan­
total compensation 212.5 181.2 181.2 1,777.3 222.5 n.a. dards, compensation for the management board members 
in financial year 2017 came to € 1.8 million, of which 
non-performance-based components account for € 0.4 mil­
lion and performance-based components account for € 1.4 
payout for the reporting year million.
niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin the individualised total compensation received by the man­
ceo cfo
agement board members in accordance with the hgb, bro­
k eur 2017 2017 ken down by non-performance-based and performance- 
  based compensation components, can be seen in the 
base salary 181.2 222.5 following table. for the ipo bonus the amount that was 
fringe benefits 31.32 0.0 actually paid is shown, while for the multi-year components 
total 212.5 222.5 the fair value at the time of their granting is shown.
special bonus 0.0 60.01
multi-year variable compensation 0.0 0.0
vsp 2016 0.0 0.0
sop 2017 0.0 0.0
total compensation 212.5 282.5
1  mr tomassin was granted a special bonus of € 200,000 to reward his extraordinary efforts in the ipo process. the special bonus is paid in two tranches:  
25% were paid in the month following the ipo, the remaining 75% one year after the ipo. in addition, mr thomassin was granted a one-time special payment  
in the amount of € 10,000 in the first quarter of 2017.
2 prior to may 2017, the personal budget of mr östberg was not limited to € 25,000.
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
non-performance-based 
k eur  components performance-based components
vsp/sop1
number  
base   fringe   special   allocation  of shares/  fair  
acting board members salary benefits bonus value options2 value3  total
 
niklas östberg 181.2 31.34 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 212.5
emmanuel thomassin 222.5 0 60.0 1.344.8 120.000 1.344.8 1.627.3
total 403.7 31.3 60.0 1.344.8 120.000 1.344.8 1.839.8
1  d1in 2016, the members of the executive board received virtual shares under the virtual share program (vsp).  
in 2017, under the stock option program (sop 2017), the outstanding shares were converted into option rights and new options were granted.
2 number of options granted, subject to the achievement of the performance target.
3  fair value at the grant date (date of the legally binding commitment).   57
information on the valuation model can be found in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
4 prior to may 2017, the personal budget of mr östberg was not limited to € 25,000.
the expense from share-based compensation expenses  stock options 
 recognized in 2017 amounted to € 7.0 million for mr östberg 
niklas östberg emmanuel thomassin
and € 2.2 million for mr thomassin.
weighted average  weighted average 
exercise price 2017   number of options  exercise price 2017   number of options 
in 2017 mr thomassin were granted in total, 120,000 new  in eur  2017 in eur  2017
stock option rights with a value of € 1.3 million. the issue date  outstanding stock options as of jan. 1  5.71     846,600     9.00     300,000   
was march 1, 2017 (60,000) and may 1, 2017 (60,000), so that 
granted in the reporting period n.a. –  16.67     120,000   
the option rights can be exercised in financial year 2019 at 
forfeited in the reporting period n.a. – n.a. –
the earliest. the option rights granted by the executive board 
exercised in the reporting period n.a. – n.a. –
and outstanding are shown below:
expired in the reporting period n.a. – n.a. –
outstanding stock options as of dec. 31  5.71     846,600     11.19     420,000   
exercisable on dec. 31 n.a. – n.a. –
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
former management board members’  outlook for financial year 2018 the new compensation system applies to all management 
 emoluments in conjunction with the change of the company’s structure  board members equally beginning on january 1, 2018. below 
as of the balance sheet date, delivery hero ag has no pen­ to that of a stock corporation (an “ag”) and the public offer­ is a look forward to the components of the compensation 
sion recipients or future beneficiaries among its former  ing in june 2017, the supervisory board adopted on march 25,  system, which has been revised with effect from the year 
management board members or management board mem­ 2018 a new compensation system for the management  2018.
bers. total remuneration for former management board  board as proposed by the compensation committee. the 
members and their survivors, along with pension liabilities  provisions of the german stock corporation act, the rec­ performance-based compensation
to former management board members and their survivors,  ommendations and suggestions of the dcgk, and the  in future the performance-based compensation will  consist 
therefore amount to € 0.00. demands of major investors were taken into account as the  of a stock option plan. this means that the compensation 
management board compensation system was further devel­ structure is multi-annual and meets the requirements of 
oped. the german stock corporation act and the corresponding 
other provisions recommendation of the dcgk. the strong share orienta­
58 in the event of a temporary incapacity to work occurring  the compensation system for the management board is  tion brings the interests of the management into harmony 
because of illness, an accident, or other reason for which  aligned with the company’s corporate strategy and is con­ with those of the shareholders. the contractual promise of 
the management board member is not at fault, manage­ ducive to sustainable corporate development. because of  an annual grant of the stock options is made initially for 
ment board members continue to receive their unreduced  the marked degree to which the variable compensation is  four years.
remuneration for six months, but no longer than until the  linked to shares under the new compensation system, a 
term of their employment agreements ends. mr thomassin  broad alignment with the interests of the investors is aimed  the new compensation system consists of the following 
is to receive for another six months, no longer than until  for. a further increase in trust after the public offering in  components (in addition to fringe benefits):
the term of his employment agreement ends, a payment in  2017 is to be brought about thereby as well. the internal 
the amount of 80% of his remuneration. performance target used in addition accords with the com­
pany’s development and growth phase. owing to the risk 
both management board members are secured by the com­ of total loss under the new stock option plan in the event 
pany  through a directors’ and officers’ liability insurance  of a stagnating or falling share price, an upper limit (cap) 
performance-based  100%   stock option  
with an insured sum within the usual market range. the  has been dispensed with to ensure a balanced opportuni­ compensation multi-year plan
insurance provides a deductible in the minimum amount  ty/risk profile for the management board and to bring its 
of 10% of the claim up to a maximum of 150% of the fixed  interests as much as possible into harmony with the inter­
annual salary, as prescribed by the german stock corpora­ ests of the shareholders.
tion act.
non- 
the supervisory board will regularly review and adjust the  performance-based  base salary
compensation system whenever necessary to allow for the  compensation
company’s further development. 
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
share-based compensation the performance period, which begins one year before the  ment of a compound annual revenue growth rate (cagr) of 
the performance-based compensation is granted in the  granting date and runs for three more years from the grant­ at least 20%, i.e. an average revenue growth of 20%  annually, 
form of a stock option plan that is settled in shares. to cal­ ing date, amounts in total to four years. this satisfies the  at the end of the performance period. this ambitious per­
culate the number of stock options (sop) that are granted  requirements of the german stock corporate act and com­ formance parameter is consistent with the company’s strong 
in a financial year, the annual target value in euros set by  plies with the dcgk’s recommendation of a fundamentally  growth strategy and constitutes a challenging performance 
the supervisory board and granted to the management  multi-year, mainly future-related component.  target. should this hurdle not be reached, all sop expire with­
board members is divi ded by the fair value of one sop at  out substitute or compensation.
the time of grant. the number of sop thus calculated is  the exercisability of the sop once the blocking period ends 
blocked for a period of four years from the date on which  depends on the achievement of a revenue growth target.  there are two exercise windows in each year of the two-year 
they are granted. subse quently, an exercise period of two  the performance target is derived from the company’s corpo- exercise period. the exercise price is equivalent to delivery  
years is provided. rate strategy. exercise of the sop is conditional on achieve­ hero’s average share price over three months before the 
granting date. the share price at which the option rights may 
be exercised remains unlimited in order to support a strong  59
alignment with the interests of the shareholders. this takes 
into account the situation of the company, which is still under 
target value   the influence of the ipo in 2017, its growth strategy, and the 
in €
strong share-orientation of the variable compensation. 
/
because of the settlement in shares, the lack of a limit on the 
fair value   share price imposes no additional risks or costs on the com­
per sop
pany. hence no maximum value is provi ded for the sop. in 
= the event of extraordinary events, how ever, the supervisory 
strike price (average for 3 months before granting)
number of   board can, as called for in § 87 (1) sent. 3 aktg, set a limit to 
granted sop ensure the appropriateness of the compensation.
performance period 4 years 
(cagr revenue growth)
blocking period 4 years exercise period 2 years
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
corporate    annual report 2017
governance report
payments at the end of the management board  compensation of members of the  the individual values for the financial year are shown in the 
service  supervisory board of delivery hero ag following table.
in the event that service on the management board is termi- the compensation received by the members of the super­
nated early before the applicable performance period of a  visory board is specified in § 13 of the articles of associa­ fixed   committee  total  
€ salary compensation compensation
current sop tranche ends, the sop expires without substi­ tion of delivery hero ag. the chairman of the supervisory 
tute or compensation in the following cases: board receives an annual fixed salary in the amount of   
martin e nderle 26,821.92 2,739.73 29,561.64
€ 50,000, while the deputy chairman receives a fixed sala­
—  revocation of the appointment for good cause; ry in the amount of € 20,000. the chairman of the audit  georg graf von 
waldersee 3,821.92 10,126.03 13,947.95
—   revocation of the appointment without good   committee receives a fixed annual salary of € 30,000. the 
cause in the first year of the first contractual   other members of the supervisory board receive a fixed  pat kolek – – –
four-year commitment; annual salary of € 15,000. in addition, all out-of-pocket  jeff liebermann 11,369.86 1,808.22 13,178.08
—   the management board member’s resignation from  expenses incurred in the performance of the duties as  jonathan green 8,876.71 0 8,876.71
60 office in the first two years of any contractual  supervisory board member as well as the value added tax  lukasz 
 commitment. on the supervisory board compensation are reimbursed.  gadowski 8,219.18 0 8,219.18
kolja 
otherwise the management board members are entitled to  for service in a committee of the supervisory board an   hebenstreit – – –
the already non-forfeitable sop at the normal end of the  annual salary of € 2,000 is granted in addition. the chair­ total 59,109.59 14,673.98 73,783.57
blocking period. man of the audit committee receives no additional com­
mittee salary. both supervisory board members, pat kolek and kolja 
hebenstreit, have waived their compensation. in the finan­
cial year of 2017, a total of € 3,701.16 has been reimbursed 
for expenses.
nonfinancial statement   annual report 2017
for the group
nonfinancial statement 
for the group
sustainability at delivery hero delivery hero has not yet defined any nonfinancial perfor­ the delivery hero internet platforms are tailored to the 
mance indicators relevant to management in accordance  needs of local customers, who can choose from a variety 
sustainable thinking and action based on fixed values and  with section 289c (3) no. 5 hgb. furthermore, there is no  of delivery services in their region and view or order food 
principles – these are essential foundations of delivery   direct connection between the amounts reported in the  from their menus. in addition to online food ordering, the 
hero’s success. the company assumes responsibility towards  annual financial statements pursuant to section 289c (3)  group also offers food delivery to its customers via a num­
society as a whole and follows the principle of sustainable  no. 6 hgb and non-financial concerns.  ber of platforms such as foodora, foodpanda and other 
development. it thus contributes to creating stable eco­ brands. the coordination of the driver/rider fleet is carried 
nomic,  social, and ecological conditions for the present and  out by a self-developed dispatch software.
future generations. in pursuing economic interests in day- description of the business model
to-day business, the globally operating delivery service also  delivery hero ag was founded in berlin in 2011 and is the  delivery hero generates a large part of its revenue from 
pays attention to ecological, social, and ethical aspects. parent company of the delivery hero group. this compris­ commissions on orders placed. these commissions are 
es a total of 137 companies worldwide. in addition to man­ based on a contractually agreed percentage of the order 
aging the group, delivery hero ag provides a range of it,  value. the percentage varies depending on the country,  61
basis of preparation marketing, and other services, in particular commercial and  the type of restaurant and the services provided, such as 
this nonfinancial statement for the group (nfs) of the  technical consulting services. delivery hero ag also per­ the use of a point of sale system, last mile delivery and mar­
delivery hero group (hereinafter referred to as delivery   forms central functions as the group holding company, such  keting support. 
hero) has been prepared in accordance with the informa­ as group controlling and controlling. 
tion required under sections 315c and 289b to e of the ger­ for further information on delivery hero’s business  model, 
man commercial code (hgb) with regard to material, envi­ the company’s accounting, public relations, investor rela­ please refer to the management report.
ronmental, employee, social, and human rights, and the  tions, risk management, and human resources manage­
fight against corruption and bribery. the nfs was prepared  ment activities are all in place.
in accordance with the gri standards of the global report­
business model
ing initiative. the delivery hero group offers online food ordering ser­
1 search
vices in over 40 countries on six continents. it operates in 
customers benefit, among others, from 
within the individual aspects, the underlying concepts and  various european countries, latin and south america, but  – a n inspirational selection of 
restaurants and dishes
due diligence processes are discussed and existing results  also in asia, africa, north america, and australia with its  – a  great takeaway experience 
are reported. in accordance with section 315b (1) sentence 3  online food ordering and online food delivery services. 2 order ddreilviveenr by yt iemaessy  aunsadg pel,e snhtoy rotf  
individual order options
hgb, reference is also made to non-financial information 
restaurants benefit, among others, from 
in the combined management report on individual aspects.  – a ccess to a large customer  
in addition, the nfs reports significant risks in accordance  3 receive – ib nacsreease in revenues
with section 289c (3) nos. 3 and 4 hgb if the information  – d ata-driven insights,  
innovative technology
is necessary for an understanding of the course of business, 
the business result, the position of the group, and its effects  4 cook 5 deliver 6 eat
on non-financial matters. 
nonfinancial statement   annual report 2017
for the group
strategy and management 
europe mena americas asia
corporate governance and sustainability
the corporate governance practiced by delivery hero ag 
stands for responsible, transparent management and 
 control, geared to long-term success. the sustainable 
 corporate culture of integrity and responsibility is based 
 fundamentally on the trust that customers, shareholders, 
and business partners place in the group. for delivery hero, 
responsible corporate governance also includes promoting 
the principle of sustainable development, integrating it into  delivery hero is active in more than 40 countires.
decision-making processes and taking it into account in   
excluding foodora own-delivery only countries (australia, canada,  
day-to-day business.  france, italy, netherlands, norway) as well as costa rica and paraguay.
delivery hero’s geographical diversity brings a variety of  ing the company’s business. it develops the strategic  for further information on corporate governance at 
62 cultural, economic, and environmental opportunities and  orientation of the company, coordinates it with the super­ delivery hero, please refer to the corporate governance 
challenges. it is therefore our goal to ensure that our busi­ visory board and ensures its implementation.  report.
ness partners, service providers, and suppliers follow the 
same high ethical principles to which delivery hero is com­ the supervisory board is the company’s controlling and  delivery hero uses its organizational structure and gover­
mitted. supervisory body. it appoints, monitors, and advises the  nance processes to promote and develop responsibility in 
members of the management board in the management of  daily actions and to directly manage sustainability. overall 
delivery hero ag is a stock corporation under german law.  the business and is directly involved in decisions of funda­ responsibility for sustainability management at delivery hero 
it is therefore subject to the provisions of the german stock  mental importance to the company. the members of the  lies with the board of management, which aligns the com­
corporation act and has a dualistic management and  shareholders’ supervisory board are elected by the share­ pany’s business policy with the requirements of socially and 
 control structure consisting of the management board and  holders at the company’s annual general meeting.  ecologically responsible management. 
the supervisory board.
the management board and supervisory board of delivery  
as a management body, the management board is respon­ hero ag attach great importance to good corporate gover-
sible for managing the company. in doing so, it is bound  nance and are guided by the recommendations of the 
to the interests of the company and is committed to a sus­  german corporate governance code, applicable laws and 
tained increase in the value of the company. the manage­ the internal rules of procedure and guidelines.
ment board of delivery hero ag is responsible for manag­
nonfinancial statement   annual report 2017
for the group
ests of our stakeholders. in this context, customers, employ­ ings from the aspects and findings from the competition 
corporate
govceorndeance ees, service providers, suppliers and investors are of par­ analysis. 
ticular importance. we regularly exchange views with them 
in an open and transparent dialogue.  delivery hero has identified the following eleven key areas 
of action, which are assigned below to the non-financial 
the globally applicable code of conduct is of paramount  issues defined by law in accordance with the csr directive 
importance for delivery hero. the code of conduct pro­ implementation act:
vides the ethical framework for daily business activities and 
manacgoeompeenrat taionnd  t ransparency defines binding standards for a responsible corporate pol­ non-financial aspect  material facts page
supervisory board
icy. in addition to the code of conduct, delivery hero has  cross-cutting issue,  compliance  64
developed further company guidelines that provide detailed  affects all non-financial 
aspects product stewardship 66
rules for individual subject areas and support sustainable 
business activities. environmental concerns environmental energy 
attention to consumption and 
the needs of the responsibility energy efficiency 66
shareholders
reduction of green­
materiality  house gas emissions  67 63
delivery hero’s nonfinancial reporting is based on the prin­
packaging and  
ciple of materiality in accordance with the csr directive  recycling 67
implementation act. this report therefore focuses primar­
true-and-fair- sustainable  employee concerns employee satisfaction 68
view-principle creation of value  ily on those areas of action that are necessary for under­
staff development 69
standing the course of business, the business results, the 
situation of the company and the effects of delivery hero  diversity and equal 
opportunities 69
on non-financial concerns.
social concerns data protection 1 65
in addition, the gri standards of the global reporting initia- social commitment 69
the adoption of sustainability strategies, programs and  tive (gri) were used as a guideline for materiality analysis  combating corruption  combating corruption 
related goals and measures of the company are decided  in the nonfinancial statement of delivery hero. and bribery and bribery 65
and reviewed by the management board. delivery hero has  1 this issue concerns both social issues and combating corruption and bribery.
a decentralized structure, so that most of the sustainabili­ the key issues for delivery hero in accordance with the csr 
ty activities are implemented in the various subsidiaries  directive implementation act result from a two-stage mate­
and divisions against the background of their respective  riality process that was carried out in the 2017 reporting  delivery hero is committed to the worldwide observance 
core business.  period.  of human rights and, as a globally active company, reports 
accordingly. by including this aspect in this nonfinancial 
delivery hero’s sustainability management aims to recon­ based on established management systems and an internal  statement, we go beyond the reporting requirements of 
cile the company’s business activities with ecological,  workshop, a selection of key topics were initially discussed  the csr directive implementation act, as this issue is not 
social and ethical aspects. we integrate sustainability into  with the responsible specialist departments. in cooperation  material, according to § 289c hgb.
our decision-making processes through clearly defined  with an external partner, these topics were condensed and 
goals and concrete measures, taking into account the inter­ validated, particularly with regard to industry- relevant find­
nonfinancial statement   annual report 2017
for the group
material risks and risk management key areas of action local companies are responsible for signing and commu­
in order to ensure sustainable business success, it is crucial  nicating the code of conduct. in some of our subsidiaries, 
that delivery hero recognizes significant risks and oppor­ compliance  employees are required to sign the code of conduct. at the 
tunities that can influence the business at an early stage.  delivery hero’s success is largely determined by integrity,  other companies, the code of conduct is communicated to 
for this reason, delivery hero has established a risk man­ trust and responsibility. these values can only be main­ our employees via the intranet or by e-mail from the respec­
agement system that is designed to manage future chal­ tained and actively lived if we act in accordance with appli­ tive management. 
lenges. the risk management function is performed by the  cable law and internalize our high ethical and moral stan­
governance, risk & compliance (grc) department.  dards in our daily work. that is why we are committed to  in cases of ethical questions, or cases with a potential 
conducting our business in a fair, respectful, and legally  impact in regard to compliance, our employees contact first 
further information on risk management at delivery hero  correct manner worldwide. in addition to issues such as the  their direct superior. in cases where this approach does not 
can be found in the risk and opportunities report 2017. prevention of corruption and money laundering, as well as  appear possible or is inappropriate, it is also possible to 
data protection, our compliance requirements also include  contact the decentralized compliance officer or the global  
in accordance with the requirements of the csr directive  respect for human rights and legal regulations in the social  compliance officer of delivery hero directly.
implementation act, delivery hero considers not only the  and ecological areas. we expect the same from our employ­
factors that relate directly to the company, but also those  ees and business partners. in addition, each delivery hero employee is responsible for 
64 risks that arise directly or indirectly from delivery hero’s  reporting real or potential violations of the law, the 
business activities.  delivery hero has established a compliance management  delivery hero code of conduct or internal policies. to report 
system aimed at preventing violations of corruption regu­ compliance violations, we offer employees and other  inter­
this responsible risk management approach is anchored in  lations, conflicts of interest, and other legal violations. our  nal and external stakeholders three reporting options:
delivery hero’s organizational structures and processes and  compliance system includes a system of measures designed 
is closely integrated with compliance management to min­ to ensure that our business is always conducted in full com­ —   online via a communication platform  
imize negative and social implications. in this way, we seek  pliance with the law and our internal policies and rules.  (whistleblower system)
to ensure that potential positive and nega tive effects on  delivery hero’s compliance efforts focus on prevention and  —   by e-mail via an email address set up specifically  
the environment and society are just as effectively identi­ detection of, and appropriately responding to, any type of  for this purpose
fied, controlled, and taken into account in corporate deci­ misconduct. —  by mail
sion-making processes.   
the code of conduct is an essential part of delivery hero’s  the internet-based communication platform is available for 
delivery hero generally assesses risks from a net perspec­ compliance organization. the code of conduct summariz­ messages (whistleblower system). it enables an anonymous 
tive after taking risk-mitigating measures into account. in  es our principles, values, standards, and rules of conduct  and protected exchange of information as well as a dialogue 
connection with the effects on the five non-financial issues,  and serves our employees as a guideline for their conduct  with delivery hero’s compliance department via a separate 
no material risks were identified that are associated with  and day-to-day decision-making situations. the code of  mailbox. the system is confidential and protected. whistle-
the company’s own business activities or with its business  conduct covers all areas of responsible corporate gover­ blowers can decide for themselves whether they want to 
relationships, products, and services that have serious  nance – from respect for universal human rights, corrup­ report by name or prefer to remain anonymous.
nega tive effects on non-financial issues.  tion and bribery prevention, the selection of suppliers and 
service providers to the handling of data and confidential 
information.
nonfinancial statement   annual report 2017
for the group
all reported cases are carefully evaluated by delivery hero.  all employees are prohibited from making or authorizing  data protection 
where necessary, the case will be managed in accordance  donations or other payments on behalf of, or by delivery   data protection is our top priority. we are aware that we col­
with the rules and procedures for dealing with reported  hero to other organizations, such as non-profit organiza­ lect, process and store a considerable amount of personal 
compliance violations. the confidentiality of the informant  tions, in which they or close family members are employed  data. any misconduct in this area would have a potentially 
reporting the violation is protected as far as legally possi­ or volunteer as directors or employees. significant negative impact on the privacy and business rela­
ble. the responsible recipient at delivery hero will only  tionships of our customers, employees, shareholders or sup­
share this information with third parties, in compliance with  any kind of financial support and donations exceeding a  pliers. we also know that misconduct in this highly sensitive 
applicable law, if he deems this necessary to eliminate the  certain amount must be approved by a representative of  area can have an impact on our company’s business success 
violation.  the management. similarly, political parties, their candi­ and image. against this background, we have initiated appro­
dates, lobby organizations, or similar delivery hero com­ priate measures to ensure data protection compliance. 
in addition, we hold regular employee training courses on  munities will not receive any donations, gifts, or other pay­
compliance issues at the respective local companies. we  ments without the prior consent of the ceo. we respect the comprehensive rights of the persons whose 
plan to establish a uniform and group-wide online training  data we collect, process, and use. we employ a variety of 
tool for 2018, which will be offered to all employees. delivery hero is firmly opposed to the acceptance, promo­ technical means and organizational measures to ensure the 
tion or support of money laundering. in the event of any   confidentiality of personal data. these data protection 
objectives and measures: compliance status suspicion, dubious transactions must be reported to the  requirements are integrated into a data protection man­ 65
regular employee training on compliance issues ongoing internally responsible finance, legal or compliance depart­ agement system. essential data protection requirements 
ments for review.  are bindingly regulated by means of our internal data pro­
tection guideline. any violations are reported to the exter­
combating corruption and bribery  objectives and measures:   nal supervisory authority in berlin.
combating corruption and bribery status
we ensure the highest standards of morality and integrity 
at delivery hero. for this reason, we do not tolerate brib­ employee training on anti-corruption and   the eu data protection regulation dsgvo will enter into force 
bribery issues ongoing
ery, corruption, or any other form of improper conduct by  in may 2018, replacing the current eu/national data protec­
our employees, business partners, or other parties involved. integration of anti-corruption and   tion law. we have reviewed these implications for the whole 
bribery issues into the online training tool planned
eu in 2017 and introduced corresponding measures in regard 
corruption is a criminal offence in the countries where  to our data protection.
delivery hero operates and may therefore result in fines or  further information on compliance management at delivery  
sanctions for delivery hero under applicable law. criminal  hero can be found in the corporate governance report. the aim of the measures described above was to protect  
offences include either direct or indirect accepting or offer­ delivery hero’s data from unauthorized access, misappropri­
ing of funds. our anti-corruption policy, available on the  ation, loss or theft protect premature deletion.
delivery hero intranet, sets the standards for delivery hero’s 
worldwide business. objectives and measures: data protection status
employee training on data protection in regard  
to the eu-data protection regulation (dsgvo) ongoing
employee training on data protection issues planned
nonfinancial statement   annual report 2017
for the group
in 2017, our legal department received 30 customer com­ product stewardship  objectives and measures: product stewardship status
plaints in connection with unwanted handling of customer  at delivery hero we know a lot about food, it’s an integral 
regularly informing our restaurant partners  
data. these were all complaints about sending of unwant­ part of our competency: this knowledge helps us to cre­ about applicable legal regulations and, if  
ed newsletters.  ate an amazing takeaway experience for our customers.  necessary, carrying out training measures ongoing
at the same time, we are aware that nutrition has a great 
in addition, ten other cases of this kind were reported to  impact on well-being and health. food production, food 
the berlin commissioner for data protection and informa­ ingredients and food consumption all influence our envi­ the logistics provider, foodora, selects its restaurant part­
tion security. there were no significant complaints due to  ronment and society in different ways. ners according to comprehensive criteria, with a particular 
violations of the customer’s privacy or the loss of  customer   focus on trend kitchens and new culinary experiences. food 
data. no cases of data theft or data leaks have come to light. although delivery hero exerts only indirect influence on  is delivered for the most popular restaurants that do not 
the products offered by our partners, we are convinced that  have their own delivery service. in these restaurants, other 
respect for human rights we can indirectly contribute to transparent and sustainable  sustainability factors, such as the ecological quality of the 
delivery hero respects and protects human rights world­ food consumption through our online marketplaces.  processed products, play an increasingly important role in 
wide. our global structures make us aware of our resulting  addition to the pure taste component. thus, foodora offers 
social responsibility. that is why we report on a voluntary  therefore, the proper and comprehensive labelling of the  a healthy and high-quality alternative to conventional food 
66 basis on the aspect of respect for human rights, even if this  goods offered on our platforms by the restaurants is natu­ suppliers and contributes – not least because of the  mostly 
is not defined as essential in accordance with the csr direc­ rally an important concern to us. we work closely with the  co -neutral delivery by bicycle – to a sustainable diet. 
2
tive implementation act.  cooperating restaurants to ensure that the necessary infor­
mation (e.g. ingredients that can cause allergies) is correct 
we understand human rights to be essential as fundamen­ and consumer-friendly. it goes without saying that we com­ climate protection and use of resources 
tal and universal guidelines that define the dignity and indi­ ply with all legal regulations and hygiene standards when  as one of the world’s largest service providers for online 
vidual rights of our employees, customers, and business  selecting our delivery services. in addition, our business  food ordering and food delivery, we bear responsibility for 
partners.  partners commit to the fact that the products they offer are  our environment and climate protection. 
of high quality and are stored, processed and manufactured 
we actively oppose forced or compulsory labor of any kind,  according to food law regulations, restaurant laws, and  at delivery hero, we see environmental impacts and the 
all other forms of modern slavery, child labor, and human  other relevant regulations. compliance with these stan­ associated challenges and opportunities for environmen­
trafficking. discrimination and inequality in employment  dards is also independently checked by the respective  tal protection mainly in energy efficiency at our main sites, 
and occupation have no place at delivery hero either. we  restaurant at least once every six months.  co reduction in our food deliveries, and the use of envi­
2
also respect the right to collective bargaining and freedom  ronmentally friendly food packaging.
of association within the framework of applicable law.  in order to ensure the high quality standards of delivery  
hero, we focus on partnership-based cooperation in order  energy consumption and energy efficiency 
to recognize possible grievances at an early stage and elim­ delivery hero pursues the long-term goal of continuously 
inate them efficiently. in principle, we reserve the right to  improving energy consumption through appropriate ener­
terminate contracts with our restaurant partners if they  gy efficiency measures. the reduced energy consumption 
continue to violate our criteria even after appropriate train­ achieved in this way also results in an improved site-depen­
ing measures.  dent co balance.
2
nonfinancial statement   annual report 2017
for the group
in order to make our contribution to climate protection,  reduction of greenhouse gas emissions foodora’s logistics concept is currently being further expand­
we concentrate on keeping energy consumption as low as  a large part of our total energy consumption is not gener­ ed. as part of a pilot program launched in 2017, autonomous 
possible and reducing our energy intensity through vari­ ated directly at our main location, but through our  delivery  robots support the existing range of emission-free deliver­
ous measures in our sphere of influence. in addition to the  services in the form of fuel. this is why ecological effects  ies. the delivery robots currently in use in hamburg are 
implementation and monitoring of concrete energy effi­ in the form of co and other pollutant emissions are par­ designed to reduce traffic and air pollution in the cities and 
2
ciency measures and energy audits, the sensitization of  ticularly relevant for delivery hero. thus contribute to achieving our climate protection target. 
employees to the resource-conserving use of energy also 
counts. energy efficiency measures can be implemented  in order to reduce the resulting greenhouse gas emissions,  packaging and recycling 
particularly at delivery hero’s head office, where we have  we are concentrating significantly on environmentally-  more than 291 million food orders were placed in 2017 – 
direct responsibility for the operation of the buildings, the  friendly and climate-friendly fleet management of our  and each of them needs the right packaging. in times of 
technical infrastructure, and it.  delivery  drivers/riders. at present, we are aiming to make  scarce raw materials and finite resources, it is therefore not 
our mobility concept in germany and europe more climate-  only essential for manufacturing companies to use neces­
objectives and measures:   friendly and are testing out alternative transport concepts.  sary materials efficiently, but also in as environmentally- 
energy consumption and energy efficiency status
in addition to measures relating to the use of ecological  friendly a way as possible. while material consumption in 
systematic recording of energy consumption planned forms of transport, we also support our partners in the  our office buildings is comparatively low and has only lim­
raising awareness of energy efficiency measures  logistical optimization of the routes in order to realize addi­ ited ecological effects, we see the use of sustainable pack­ 67
among employees at the main sites planned tional savings potentials in this way. aging materials as a central opportunity to have a positive 
implementation of energy efficiency measures:  impact on resource  conservation and climate protection 
 –    increasing the room temperature of all data  individual companies outside europe maintain their own  within our sphere of influence. 
centers to reduce cooling power consumption planned
vehicle fleets in their respective national markets. how ever, 
procurement of renewable energies at   many of our drivers or contractual partners are in charge  objectives and measures: packaging and recycling status
our main german locations planned
for their individual mobility concepts.  sensitization of restaurant partners for  
environment-friendly packaging materials planned
objectives and measures:   expansion of proprietary range of  
in 2016, delivery hero carried out an energy audit of its  reduction of greenhouse gas emissions status environment-friendly packaging ongoing
 former headquarters in berlin. total energy consumption  raising our restaurant partners’ awareness  
of alternative and optimized transport options  
amounted to 904,472 kwh. electricity consumption (44%) 
for continuously reducing the greenhouse  
and district heating  consumption (51%) accounted for the  gas intensity of our driver fleets ongoing together with its business partners, foodora takes care to 
majority of our energy consumption. in accordance with the  use food packaging with a positive environmental impact. 
expansion of pilot projects for  
legally required periodic energy audits, delivery hero will  environmentally friendly transport logistics ongoing to conserve resources and promote the sustainable use of 
also conduct an energy audit of its new headquarters. materials, a selection of environment-friendly, recyclable 
packaging is offered to restaurant partners in our web shop. 
an example of the choice of a particularly  environmentally   most of these products are made of paper and therefore 
friendly means of transport is provided by our logistics pro­ differ from conventional, resource-intensive plastic pack­
vider foodora: around 90% of all orders in germany are  aging.
delivered to customers by bicycle. the riders receive a c redit 
of € 0.25 per hour ridden and have access to a mobile repair 
service. 
nonfinancial statement   annual report 2017
for the group
foodora’s packaging is made of environment-friendly mate­ employer attractiveness ees the opportunity to reconcile their professional and 
rials and is of very high quality. foodora promotes sustain­ the employees of delivery hero are a fundamental pillar   private lives even better in the future. in order to provide 
ability through the use and explicit recommendation of  of our business success. offering them an attractive job  for our employees in old age, we offer them a  company  
packaging products made of paper or bioplastics. for this  and the opportunity for professional development is an  pension scheme which they can take out voluntarily. as a 
purpose, a packaging guideline was communicated to our  essential part of our corporate identity. in addition, we  responsible employer, delivery hero supports its employ­
restaurant partners in december 2017. foodora underlines  want to maintain and improve employee satisfaction in the  ees by paying part of the contribution. 
its commitment to the use of sustainable packaging alter­ long term. we also address critical voices by conducting 
natives and recommends the use of the following materi­ an active and open dialogue. in everyday life, we live fair,  to enable us to respond to the needs of our employees, we 
als:  equal, and respectful relationships between equals. in this  conduct ongoing employee surveys. in this way we deter­
way, we want to ensure that delivery hero is a responsible  mine the general level of satisfaction and get a direct pic­
—    paper/cardboard   employer and keeps a close eye on the needs of its employ­ ture of our working atmosphere. from the results, we derive 
(environment-friendly and recyclable) ees. we currently employ 455 people in delivery hero ag.  concrete measures that should contribute to maintaining 
—   cpla (“bioplastics”) as a substitute for   there are 14,631 employees throughout the group. or even improving employee satisfaction at a high level in 
oil-based plastics the long term.
—  bagasse (biodegradable, compostable)  employee satisfaction
68 delivery hero wants to maintain the satisfaction of its  objectives and measures: employee satisfaction status
our business partners are encouraged by our packaging  employees and use their potential for improvement in order  increasing employer attractiveness through 
guidelines to avoid packaging made of aluminium, polysty­ to strengthen identification with the company in the long  employer branding measures ongoing
rene or cling film. in 2017, foodora also acquired around  term. we always pay attention to the needs of our employ­ increasing the work-life balance of employees 
25,000 fastpac packaging units from sabert for our logis­ ees  and observe trends and developments in order to main­ through the expansion of flexible working  
time models ongoing
tics. the polypropylene shells have a 30% share of so-called  tain a good competitive position in the hard-fought mar­
“mineral fillers” and are recyclable. the mineral fillers also  ket for qualified employees in the long term. concrete  monitoring of employee satisfaction by  
means of a company-wide survey ongoing
improve the formability and stability of plastic packaging.  measures have been developed for this purpose, which are 
as a result, many of our end users do not dispose of fast­ currently either in the planning stage or will be continued 
pac articles, but use them several times after cleaning.  on an ongoing basis. 
with the help of these individual measures, we can make 
in 2017, around 8,136,510 paper bags were shipped world­ in the long term, we increasingly want to present ourselves  a direct contribution to the satisfaction of our employees 
wide. of these, around 1,870,750 (approx. 23%) were made  as an attractive employer to the outside world and use  and offer them a job tailored to their own needs. 
from recycled paper. foodora’s restaurant partners are not  employer branding measures more and more. to this end, 
contractually obliged to use the paper bags. however, not  we will continue our presence on social media platforms  we also ensure fair working conditions at our logistics pro­
least because of the ecological properties of this packag­ such as xing and linkedin in order to communicate our  vider foodora and maintain an open and transparent dia­
ing option, we recommend their use.  advantages as an employer and the values and corporate  logue with both our drivers/riders and the trade unions. 
philosophy of our company. this led to the conclusion that all employees were given a 
permanent contract of employment irrespective of the con­
for qualified personnel, flexible working hours are increas­ tractual model. all drivers/riders – whether full-time, midi 
ingly become a decisive reason to choose an  employer.   or mini jobbers, or working students – are automatically 
delivery hero therefore wants to further develop different  covered by social security and pension contributions when 
working time models. in this way, we can give our employ­ signing employment contracts and receive hourly wages 
nonfinancial statement   annual report 2017
for the group
between € 9 and € 12. furthermore, foodora riders in  diversity and equal opportunities in 2017, delivery hero also presented the “hero award for 
 germany are, of course, legally entitled to regular paid  cultural diversity is a top priority at delivery hero. this is  social entrepreneurship” for the first time, which is endowed 
 holidays and continued payment in the event of illness.  reflected in the positioning of our international group.  with € 15,000. the winner was resq club, a company head­
overtime is also charged and paid by the minute. throughout germany we currently employ more than 1,000  quartered in helsinki. resq club is present in  finland, swe­
people from over 60 countries. cultural diversity is there­ den, and germany and has set itself the task of reducing 
staff development fore firmly anchored in our daily business activities. we see  food waste. to this end, the company cooperates with 
as a modern and dynamic company with flat hierarchies,  them as a great asset to our company and promote such  restaurants and hotels that pass on their food surpluses to 
it is of particular concern to us to involve our employees in  diversity accordingly. consumers at reduced prices. we also supported resq club 
the further development of delivery hero and to support  with a mentoring program. within this program, experts 
them individually with suitable offers.  in addition, we are committed to an equal opportunity pol­ and executives from delivery hero passed on their exper­
icy for all applicants and employees regardless of race,  color,  tise in relevant areas to resq club, thereby strengthening 
with various professional development opportunities, we  gender, religion, age, nationality or descent, potential dis­ the company’s know-how.
contribute to constantly expanding the knowledge and  ability or other legally protected status. we are committed 
skills of our employees and to maintaining their motivation  to creating a workplace free from harassment, intimidation  in addition to our existing activities, we plan to introduce 
and commitment. in total, delivery hero ag employees  or abuse.  a “corporate volunteering day” in 2018. on this day, our 
received 661 hours of training and cpd training (excluding  employees can commit to an initiative of their choice in  69
webinars or other online training) in 2017. delivery hero  equal opportunity is a prerequisite for delivery hero to be  accordance with our policy and offer their support without 
supports its employees in their personal career develop­ perceived as a responsible employer. we oppose all forms  having to take a day off. 
ment with the help of these training courses. the apprais­ of discrimination and unequal treatment and encourage 
al interviews also contribute to this. during these inter­ our business partners and service providers to meet our  in order to act as an exemplary company and ensure that 
views, employees receive individual feedback and further  high ethical standards.  our commitment reaches the right places, we have devel­
professional interests and development potential are iden­ oped concrete guidelines that must be complied with by 
tified. currently 69% of delivery hero ag employees receive  objectives and measures:   everyone. for more information on the individual provi­
diversity and equal opportunities status
such feedback and career development meetings. over the  sions, see the compliance chapter. in addition, we are cur­
next two years, we want to ensure that 100% of our employ­ raising employee awareness of anti-  rently drawing up a donations and sponsorship guideline, 
discrimination and equal opportunities and, 
ees have the opportunity to take part in such meetings and  which in future will contain even more precise guidelines 
where appropriate, training ongoing
thus develop their career further with us.  on the framework within which donations and sponsor­
ships may be made. after completion, this will be made 
objectives and measures: staff development status available to all our employees and anchored in the compli­
further development of the professional  social responsibility ance training courses.
 competence of employees ongoing social responsibility is at the heart of delivery hero being 
performance reviews are conducted on   a “good corporate citizen”. for this reason, we supported  objectives and measures: social responsibility status
an  ongoing basis ongoing the caritas initiative and the berliner tafel food pantry in  introduction of a corporate volunteering day planned
career development meetings 100% 2020 2017 with donations in kind and in cash. furthermore, we  development of a donation sponsorship   in  
participated in the “give & help day” of woloho and young­ guideline and sensitization of employees implemen tation
caritas. delivery hero has provided food for this purpose.
the delivery hero share  annual report 2017
the delivery hero share
—   successful ipo in june with a placement  
volume of € 996 million
—  share price gained 23% in 2017 
—  sdax listing in september 
—  coverage by 14 analysts 
positive stock market environment  the delivery hero share price   year, at € 39.31, on november, 20. the share price dipped at 
increased post ipo the end of the year in line with the general trend in the stock 
in 2017 the international equity capital markets remained an  the shares of delivery hero were first listed at the prime stan­ markets. delivery hero ended the year with a share price of 
attractive asset class given the continued low interest rate  dard of the frankfurt stock exchange on june 30, 2017. the  € 33.00, a gain of 23% since its initial listing.
environment. this positive environment has been reflected  total placement volume of the ipo was € 996 million. 
in the german benchmark index dax which closed at 
12,917 points at the end of 2017, a 12.5% gain on the year. the  the delivery hero share price had a positive performance 
steady growth trajectory in the eurozone, a temporarily weak­ since the ipo. the performance was driven by a number of 
70 ening euro, and investors’ positive expectations of corporate  factors including higher than expected results and the prompt 
profits contributed to this positive trend.  inclusion in the sdax. the share price reached its high for the 
performance of the delivery hero share price since its ipo  
%
150
140
130
120
110
100
90
july ‘17 august ‘17 september ‘17 october ‘17 november ‘17 december ‘17
 delivery hero share   dax    sdax
the delivery hero share  annual report 2017
key performance indicators for the delivery hero share  communication with the capital market
  
unit 2017 the delivery hero share has attracted a great deal of atten­
  tion in the capital market since it was first listed on the 
issue price eur 25.50 exchange. currently 14 financial analysts cover our share 
first listing on jun. 6, 2017 eur 26.90 and regularly publish research studies. a the time of the 
ipo, our share was covered by seven analysts.
year-end price eur 33.00
yearly high eur 39.31
since the ipo, our management and investor relations teams  71
yearly low eur 25.53
have engaged in a total of 19 roadshows in the most import­
number of shares on  ant financial centres in the u.s. and in europe. in addition, 
dec. 31, 2017 share 182,498,900
we have participated in several international capital mar­
market capitalization on  eur   ket conferences since the ipo. 
dec. 31, 2017 million  6,022.5
average trading volume per day shares 176,805
comprehensive information for shareholders is available in 
dividend  eur 0.00 the investor relations section of our company website at 
https://ir.deliveryhero.com/. in addition to investor relations 
news, you will also find presentations, analysts c overing the 
key share data  company and recorded audio webcasts  concerning our 
quarterly and annual financial statements as well as all 
 
class of shares registered shares important dates along with our investor relations team’s 
  contact information. 
ticker symbol dher
wkn a2e4k4
isin de000a2e4k43
reuters and   reuters: dher.de 
bloomberg symbol bloomberg: dher:gr 
market segment sdax, prime standard
 annual report 2017
combined management report 
combined  
a. group profile page 73
  01. business model
  02. corporate strategy 
  03. group structure
management     04. segments 
  05. management system 
  06. research and development (r&d)
b. economic report page 78
report
  01. market and industry environment
  02. business performance
  03. n  et assets, financial position and results of operations
  04.  employees
c. risk and opportunity report page 88
  01. risk policy principles and risk strategy
  02. g roup-wide risk management system (rms)
  03. s ystem of internal financial reporting controls
  04. internal audit system
  05. risk report
  06. opportunity report
72 d. subsequent events and outlook page 95
  01. subsequent events
  02. outlook
e. use of financial instruments page 96
  01. risk management
  02. liquidity risk
  03. market risk
  04. default risk
f. other disclosures page 97
  01.  takeover-related information p ursuant to sections 289a (1)  
and 315a (1) of the german commercial code (hgb)
  02. c ompensation report pursuant to s ections 289a (2)  
and 315a (2) of the  german commercial code (hgb)
  03. corporate governance code
  04. nonfinancial statement for the group
  05. treasury shares
g.  supplementary management report to the separate  
financial statements of delivery hero ag page 98
  01. business model
  02. n  et assets, financial positions and result of  
operations of the company
try out our interactive table of contents.  
you will be directed to the selected page.
combined   a. group profile  annual report 2017
management report
a. group profile website and are subsequently paid either in cash or via  02. corporate strategy
online payment methods. as an option, delivery hero offers 
its partner restaurants a delivery and point of sale system  delivery hero’s success is constantly improving each single 
01. business model in order for them to immediately view as well as accept  detail of the customer experience, always focusing on the 
orders made on the platform. furthermore, delivery hero  overall aim of creating an amazing takeaway experience. 
the delivery hero ag and its consolidated subsidiaries,  offers products and services for restaurants, such as food  we describe key aspects of our corporate strategy below.
together delivery hero group (also dh, dh group, delivery   packaging, advertising and printing services. in addition 
hero or group), provide online and food delivery services  to the online food ordering platforms, the group also offers  creating an amazing takeaway experience  
in over 40 countries and four geographical segments,  own delivery services to restaurants without this capability.  around food, ordering and service
comprising europe, middle east and north africa (mena),  the own delivery fleet is coordinated using proprietary  delivery hero group strives to offer amazing food and to 
asia and the americas. dispatch software. increase the order frequency by constantly optimizing 
restaurant quantity, quality and variety. delivery hero seeks 
following the change in legal form from a limited liability  delivery hero generates a large portion of its revenue on the  to expand its delivery operations to be able to include restau­
company (gmbh) to a german stock company (ag), the  basis of orders placed. these commission revenues are based  rants on its platforms that do not offer delivery themselves. 
company has been operating since may 29, 2017 as  on a contractually specified percentage of the order value.  own-delivery services for restaurant without delivery fleet 
delivery hero ag, berlin, germany. the change of the legal  the percentage varies depending on the country, type of  was rolled-out even further in 2017 in mena and the amer­ 73
form became effective with the entry in the commercial  restaurant and services provided, such as the use of a point  icas. in the financial year 2017 delivery hero also cross-listed 
register of the district court of berlin-charlottenburg on  of sale system, last mile delivery and marketing support.  a number of restaurants that were originally only listed 
may 29, 2017. further information on the group structure  under our own delivery brands, on other marketplaces.
and segments can be found in the chapters “group struc­ in addition to commissions, delivery hero generates reve­
ture” and “segments”. since june 30, 2017 the shares of  nue, e.g. with premium placements. premium placement  the group also intends to continue improving the fulfill­
delivery hero ag are listed in the regulated market (prime  means that, for a fee, restaurants are ranked on top among  ment processes. through a proprietary algorithm, which 
standard) of the frankfurt stock exchange.  all the listed restaurants in their relevant delivery area  is continuously refined, delivery hero seeks to reduce 
displayed in a specific manner. furthermore, delivery hero  delivery times and further increase the accuracy of the 
the subsidiaries of the group operate internet platforms  generates revenue from delivery fees. forecast time of arrival. further, with respect to the own 
under various brand names, where users of the platform  delivery operations, the group intends to increase the 
are referred to restaurants and provided with food delivery  the delivery hero group’s business model is based on the  utilization rate of its drivers/riders to reduce their churn 
services. the delivery hero internet platforms are aligned  vision of the management team to provide platform users  rate. in 2017, delivery hero increased focus and investment 
to the local requirements of the end customers who can  with an amazing takeaway experience. this includes an  in its logistics services technology, including driver/rider 
choose from a wide range of menu items from restaurants  appealing and seamless handling of the order as well as a  scheduling and staffing, fleet management, route optimi­
in their neighborhood. orders can be made by app or via  first-class quality of food and a top delivery service. zation and real-time delivery estimates.
combined   a. group profile  annual report 2017
management report
delivery hero further increases personalization by using  into a single- branded online marketplace, depending on the  seeking to improve margins and  
the large amounts of data processed on a daily basis. the  best stra tegy to adopt in a particular country. overall,  reach adjusted ebitda1 break-even
company expects that increasing personalization will lead  delivery hero tailors its brand strategy and restaurant offer­ on segment level delivery hero reached break-even on an 
to higher conversion rates (i.e. the percentage of people  ing on a c ountry- by-  country basis. adjusted ebitda basis in one segment, mena, in 2016. in a 
visiting our websites that actually place an order), custom­ few countries in europe and mena, we even reached ebitda 
er satisfaction, loyalty and a higher share of organic traffic.  improving revenue streams margins before central cost allocation of around or exceed­
the group’s ultimate goal is to perfectly know the food  commissions have historically accounted for about three  ing 50%. the management board focuses on improving the 
preferences of the end customers and therefore have them  quarters of group revenues. this is still the case in the  group’s profitability by divesting operations without 
outsource their food decision to delivery hero. in this  financial year 2017, with commissions accounting for 75%   significant potential to increase our margins, such as 
matter the group increased focus in 2017 on inspirational  of the total segment revenue. commissions are set as a   countries in which delivery hero does not have a market 
content, next generation browsing experience and recom­ percentage of the gross merchandise value ordered via our  leader role. in the financial year 2017 we sold our operations 
mendations based on consumer experience and machine  platforms. the percentage depends on the selection of  in gerorgia, slova kia, kazakhstan and india. in poland, we 
learning, and will continue to do so in 2018. increasing  restaurants, the maturity of the market and the services we  entered into a joint venture with a local partner that invest­
personalization will generate more orders from our exist­ perform for the relevant restaurant. as the group enters  ed in our former polish subsidiary and now holds a 51% stake 
ing user base. delivery hero also seeks to enlarge its user  new markets, it typically seeks to attract restaurants with  in this entity, with a view to accelerating the growth of our 
74 base by attracting new users. the group believes that its  lower commission rates to its platforms in order to build  operations.
focus on customer satisfaction has positive collateral  restaurant supply quickly. as the gross food sales increases 
effects, as there is a high correlation between customer  on the delivery hero marketplaces the group is able to  we aim to steadily improve our group-wide margin. delivery  
satisfaction and recommendations between user friends. charge a higher commission rates, provide additional ser­ hero’s strategic goal remains to reach total segment adjust­
vices and value to restaurants. we have also seen a signif­ ed ebitda break-even for the group by end of 2018 on a 
following a return-driven approach   icant increase in orders from 197 million orders (on an  monthly basis, and in 2019 for the full year.
to refine the brand strategy aggregated like-for-like basis) in 2016 to 292 million orders 
in some countries, delivery hero currently operates on the  in 2017. 
basis of a multi-brand strategy. this strategy allows delivery  
hero to target different customer demographics and  we intend to further develop our monetization model by 
ensures that relevant restaurant content is shown to that  tapping into additional income streams to improve the take 
consumer group to increase conversion. we constantly  rate, for example through rolling out of restaurant promo­
evaluate and track the success of a brand strategy based on  tion programs with discounted offerings and offering 
the indicators return on investment, costs per acquisition  premium listing options in all of our markets.
(“cpa”) and the expected customer lifetime value (“cltv”). 
in some markets delivery hero merges its different brands 
1  adjusted ebitda is the earnings from continuing operations before income 
taxes, financial result, depreciation and amortization and non-operating 
 earnings effects. non-operating earnings effects comprise, in particular 
(i) expenses for share-based payment, (ii) expenses for services in connection 
with corporate transactions and financing rounds, (iii) expenses for reorganiza­
tion measures, (iv) expenses for the implementation of information technology,  
(v) expenses for the achievement of capital market capability, and (vi) other 
non-operating expenses and income, especially the result from disposal of 
 tangible and intangible assets, the result from income and expenses from  
sale and abandonment of subsidiaries, allowances for other receivables, and 
non-income taxes.
combined   a. group profile  annual report 2017
management report
03. group structure 04. segments the group is further represented in norway, sweden, fin­
land, france, the netherlands, austria, the czech republic, 
the parent company delivery hero ag (previously delivery   the business of delivery hero is divided into four geograph­ italy, switzerland and greece and on a local basis with 
hero gmbh) (the “company”) was founded with its head­ ical segments. the services and order platforms are aligned  individual local brands. the foodora brand is represented 
quarters in berlin in 2011 and has since expanded its pres­ to local market circumstances and the respective compet­ in a large number of large european cities, particularly in 
ence in local markets worldwide with various brands. after  itive situation. germany, austria, finland, france, italy, the netherlands, 
various acquisitions between 2014 and 2017, the global  norway and sweden.
scope of consolidation of the delivery hero group compris­ the group distinguishes between four geographically 
es 137 companies as of reporting date (previous year:  structured segments: in april 2017, delivery hero announced a regional partner­
136 companies). for further details, refer to section b. 02. –  ship with amrest holding se, the largest publicly traded 
business performance. delivery hero exercises either direct  —  europe restaurant operator in central europe. the partnership 
or indirect control over all subsidiaries. —  mena (middle east & north africa) gives delivery hero the exclusive opportunity to integrate 
—  asia  a large number of amrest’s most popular restaurants and 
the delivery hero group is managed by delivery hero ag.  —  americas brands throughout poland into its own food delivery plat­
alongside the management of the group, delivery hero ag  form. as part of the agreement, amrest will also place its 
assumes a range of it, marketing and other services, in  the mena segment includes turkey, the asia segment  brands onto the delivery hero platforms damejidlo.cz in  75
particular commercial and technical consultancy services.  includes australia, while canada is part of the americas  the czech republic and netpincér.hu in hungary. as part 
in addition, as a holding group, delivery hero ag assumes  segment. of the partnership, delivery hero is reducing its stake in 
functions such as group controlling and accounting, public  restaurant partner polska sp. z.o.o. to 49% (december 31, 
relations, investor relations, risk management and human  as a result of the foodpanda acquisition in 2016, 20 geo­ 2016: 89.71%).
resources management. graphical markets in europe, mena and asia were added.
as a result of its acquisition of the foodpanda group in 
delivery hero ag’s management board consists of two  europe decem ber 2016, delivery hero extended its portfolio in eight 
members. the management board is responsible for the  aside from commissions, delivery hero generates addition­ eastern european countries. foodpanda is represented in 
strategy and management of the group. the ceo niklas  al revenue in europe, e.g. with premium placements.  the markets of bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, bulgaria, 
östberg is responsible for the areas strategy, operations,  hungary, montenegro, romania and serbia with the brands 
technology, personnel, marketing, public relations and  in germany, the group is represented with the brands piz­ foodpanda, netpincér, donesi and pauza.
investor relations. emmanuel thomassin is responsible for  za.de, lieferheld and foodora. the brands have different 
the areas finance, purchasing, legal, internal audit, as well   target groups. while pizza.de focuses on price-sensitive 
as governance, risk and compliance. the supervisory board  customer groups such as students, lieferheld concentrates 
advises and supervises the management board. the super­ on fami lies and young professionals who appreciate a wide 
visory board is involved in transactions of fundamental  range with different options. foodora operates in the 
importance to the company. premium food segment.
combined   a. group profile  annual report 2017
management report
in line with delivery hero’s strategy to further build its  in 2017, the mena businesses of the foodpanda group, with  americas
leadership positions and consolidate markets, dh group  its popular brands hungerstation and otlob, which was  in the americas segment, over 10 geographical markets are 
received approval by the united kingdom competition and  acquired in december 2016, are reflected in this segment  part of the delivery hero portfolio, including canada, where 
markets authority (cma) to sell its hungryhouse business,  for a 12 months period. in june 2017, delivery hero made  the group is represented with the foodora brand. in latin 
which operates an online food ordering portal for the  another strategic investment into the region by acquiring  america, delivery hero operates primarily the brands 
 british  market to just eat plc in november 2017. this dives­ the carriage group, a kuwait based innovative food order­ pedidosya and clickdelivery, which have been part of the 
titure was completed on january 31, 2018. further euro pean  ing portal which is active in several countries in the middle  group since 2014. pedidosya was founded in 2008 and 
divestments in 2017 relate to our businesses in georgia and  east (refer to section d. 02. a) of the consolidated financial  connects customers and restaurants in argentina, brazil, 
kazakhstan. statements). chile, panama, paraguay and uruguay. clickdelivery oper­
ates in columbia, ecuador and peru. overall, the latin 
in order to further strengthen our market leader position  asia american countries have considerable growth potential, 
in greece, delivery hero made a strategic investment in the  the group has a significant presence in south korea where  which also includes the online food market.
greek market by acquiring deliveras in january 2018 (refer  the group operates the yogiyo, baedaltong and foodfly 
to section i. of the consolidated financial statements). brands. while yogiyo is a classic website for online food 
ordering, baedaltong operates a click-to-call business. this 
76 mena is designed like an industry directory for restaurants that 
operating activities in the mena segment make a signifi­ connect users directly with the restaurant via a website. 
cant contribution to the number of orders and the gross  foodfly is a food delivery marketplace with its own delivery 
merchandise volume of the group. in the mena segment,  service that was added to the portfolio in october 2017 as 
delivery hero is represented in the markets of bahrain,  part of the acquisition of fly & company, inc.
 jordan,  kuwait, oman, qatar, kingdom of saudi arabia 
(ksa), kuwait, united arab emirates, turkey and egypt with  the acquisition of foodpanda in 2016 significantly expand­
brands such as yemeksepeti, talabat, foodonclick, hunger­ ed the geographical footprint of the delivery hero group 
station, hellofood, otlob and carriage. in asia, allowing access to the growth potential of various 
young markets such as bangladesh, brunei, hong kong, 
delivery hero has a strong position in many countries of  malaysia, pakistan, the philippines, singapore, taiwan and 
the mena region, among them turkey, ksa, kuwait and  thailand.
egypt. in turkey, the largest food delivery market in the 
mena segment, the group is represented with the yemek­ dh group operates under its foodora brand in australia.
sepeti brand which was founded in 2001 and has been part 
of the delivery hero group since 2015.
combined   a. group profile  annual report 2017
management report
05. management system fy   fy 2016 change the r&d activities of delivery hero are focusing on the 
2017 (lfl)1 (lfl)1
challenges providing an exceptional takeaway experience 
the management board steers the company both at a    today and in the future. these challenges include the pro­
group
segment level (i.e. europe, mena, asia and the americas)  cessing millions of orders in near real-time without glitch, 
and consolidated group level. the key financial perfor­ orders (million) 291.5 197.1 48% responsible collection of a staggering amount of data and 
mance indicators monitored are group revenues and  gmv (eur million) 3,824.3 2,617.8 46% coping with widely different local requirements across our 
adjusted ebitda. markets. 
1 lfl – like-for-like
delivery hero also uses various non-financial performance  delivery hero’s r&d activities concentrate on the develop­
indicators to manage the group: 06. research and development (r&d) ment of local technology and platforms in order to provide 
highly localized solutions on the one side. on the other 
—   orders2 is a key performance indicator that drives  our vision of creating an amazing takeaway experience is  side, the focus is on the design of a central support function 
 revenue performance and growth. orders grew in  contingent on constant innovation and technological devel­ with innovations in:
2017 year-on-year by 47.9%, like-for-like3 to  opment in all areas of the customer experience, including 
291.5 million. discovery and placing the order, restaurant integration,  —  data and analytics
—   gross merchandise value4 (gmv) is directly  delivery experience and managing customer relations.  —   logistics, including fleet management and   77
 influenced by orders and has a direct impact on  innovation and technology is focusing on the enhancement  driver/rider scheduling
 revenues. it is one of the key elements controlled   of the value for the platform users by providing more per­ —  marketing, crm and campaign automation 
by our management. gmv grew in 2017 year-on-  sonalized offers, order tracking and visibility, as well as  —   restaurant order transmission,  
year by 46.1%, like-for-like to € 3,824.3 million.  facilitating discovering of new restaurants and dishes.  driver tracking and pos integration; and
innovation and technology is further aiming to enhance  —  consumer experience.
the value of our restaurant partners by improving the 
forecast of demand and supply, inventory management and  in order to provide local solutions but also leveraging from 
enabling a faster and better delivery and offering-tailored  our global platform we follow a flexible approach with 
marketing solutions. strong and agile regional tech teams in all our segments. 
2  orders represent orders made by end consumers in the period indicated.  the largest team is situated in berlin.
orders for our click-to-call operations (similar to a restaurant-specific business 
directory where customers click on a button that will connect them directly  
with the restaurant via telephone) have been estimated based on the number  in 2017, r&d expenses amounted to about € 29.0 million 
of phone calls made by users to restaurants through these click-to-call platforms 
in the relevant period that lasted 25 seconds or longer multiplied by 60%. (2016: € 16.5 million). this corresponds to 5.3% (2016: 5.7%) 
3  “like-for-like” presents delivery hero’s comparative 2016 results as if the acqui­
of revenue. development costs of € 1.8 million were capi­
sition of foodpanda had occurred on january 1, 2016 and excludes contribu­
tions from operations reported in discontinued operations. furthermore asia  talized (previous year: € 1.5 million). third party r&d ser­
kpis exclude our former operations in china, which were sold in may 2016.
4  gmv refers to gross merchandise value, which means the total value of orders  vices are used only to a minor extend.
(including vat) transmitted to restaurants. gmv for our click-to-call operations 
(similar to a restaurant-specific business directory where customers click on a 
button that will connect them directly with the restaurant via telephone) have  at the end of the financial year, 635 people were employed 
been estimated based on the number of phone calls made by users to restau­
in our r&d activities. this represents 4.3% of total employ­
rants through these click-to-call platforms in the relevant period that lasted 
25 seconds or longer multiplied by 60% and by the average basket size for   ees.
the orders placed through our korean non-click-to-call online marketplaces 
during the same period.
combined   b. economic report  annual report 2017
management report
b. economic report gdp development 2017 europe global economic growth increased from 3.2% in 2016 to 
% (2016) 3.7% in 2017 according to latest forecasts of the  international  
01. market and industry environment monetary fund (imf). for 2018, the institution expects a 
growth of 3.9%5.
a) macroeconomic situation
switzerland 1.0 (1.4)
we are seeing a positive development in almost all of our 
sweden 3.1 (3.2)
gdp development 2017 americas 41 markets6. imf forecasts positive gdp growth for every 
serbia 3.0 (2.8)
% (2016) market in europe and the americas, where delivery hero 
romania 5.5 (4.8)
group operates. for almost all of our markets in mena and 
montenegro 3.0 (2.5)
asia7, a positive development is expected as well.
hungary 3.2 (2.0)
uruguay 3.5 (1.5)
greece 1.8 (0.0)
compared to the gdp growth rates of 2016, ecuador,  brazil  
peru 2.7 (4.0)
germany 2.0 (1.9) and argentina have returned to economic growth after 
panama 5.3 (4.9)
finland 2.8 (1.9) slight declines in 2016.
ecuador 0.2 (–1.5)
czech republic 3.5 (2.6)
colombia 1.7 (2.0)
78 croatia 2.9 (3.0) regarding the foreign exchange rates, the euro appreci ated 
chile 1.4 (1.6)
bulgaria 3.6 (3.4) against the five other currencies to which delivery hero had 
brazil 0.7 (–3.6)
bosnia and herzegovina 2.5 (2.0) the highest exposure in 2017: south korean won (krw), 
argentina 2.5 (–2.2)
austria 2.3 (1.5) turkish lira (try), united states dollar (usd), kuwaiti dinar 
(kwd) and saudi riyal (sar). please refer to the following 
source: international monetary fund, world economic outlook, october 2017 calculated foreign currency variations of these currencies 
against the euro between january 2017 and december 20178:
gdp development 2017 asia gdp development 2017 mena —  usd –10.2% 
% (2016) % (2016) —  krw –2.4% 
—  try –12.6% 
—  kwd –9.1% 
—  sar –10.1% 
thailand 3.7 (3.2) united arab emirates 1.3 (3.0)
taiwan 2.0 (1.5) turkey 5.1 (3.2)
korea, rep. 3.0 (2.8) saudi arabia 0.1 (1.7)
singapore 2.5 (2.0) qatar 2.5 (2.2)
philippines 6.6 (6.9) oman 0.0 (3.0)
pakistan 5.3 (4.5) –2.1 (2.5) kuwait
malaysia 5.4 (4.2) jordan 2.3 (2.0)
hong kong 3.5 (2.0) egypt. arab rep. 4.1 (4.3)
5  international monetary fund, world economic outlook, october 2017:  
–1.3 (–2.5) brunai darusalam bahrain 2.5 (3.0) brighter prospects, optimistic markets, challenges ahead.
6  including panama, excluding costa rica and divested countries:  
bangladesh 7.1 (7.2) india, kazakhstan, georgia and slovakia.
7  excluding kuwait and brunei.
8  variations are calculated based on vwd (vereinigte wirschaftsdienste gmbh) 
source: international monetary fund, world economic outlook, october 2017 foreign exchange rates.
combined   b. economic report  annual report 2017
management report
b) sector development —   we estimate that the online delivery market in all   b) financing measures
we have a large geographic footprint with operations in  the countries where delivery hero operated in 2016  major financing measures during 2017 primarily relate to 
attractive markets in europe, mena, asia and the americas.  accounted for only € 7.6 billion of a total € 72.2 billion  the financing round from may 2017 of € 301.4 million with 
according to recent market studies, the global food market  food delivery market in the delivery hero countries   naspers ventures b.v. (naspers), the initial public offering 
amounted to € 7.5 trillion in 20169. based on internal market  in 2016 (online marketplaces and platforms for order­ (ipo) of € 467.9 million (net of transaction costs) in june 
analyses, we estimate that the food delivery market in the  ing food accounted for only € 4.6 billion). 2017 and the capital increase of € 360.1 million (net of 
delivery hero countries accounted for  roughly  € 72.2 billion  —   increasing migration towards urban centers, chan- transaction costs) in december 2017. the funds were used 
in 2016. the food delivery market is highly fragmented with  ging overall customer lifestyles towards fast pace   for repayment of bank and shareholder loans. beside in 
approximately 20 million restaurants globally10. we there­ and convenience, as well as growing spending power  2017, the group agreed an unsecured revolver credit facil­
fore believe that we provide a valuable service to restau­ mean that the countries in which we operate have  ity of € 75.0 million. 
rants and customers alike by aggregating restaurants in a  significant penetration upside potential. we therefore 
certain local market in one online marketplace. see a large potential for food delivery services that  c) acquisitions
provide their own last-mile delivery services. in may 2017 delivery hero acquired 100% of the shares in 
we believe that our markets have grown since 2016 driven  carriage logistics general trading company llc (kuwait), 
by several fundamental tailwinds: increasing online and  parent company of the carriage group, which operates an 
mobile customer engagement and last-mile logistics capa­ 02. business performance innovative and fast-growing food ordering portal in seve ral  79
bilities, as well as shifts in customer behavior due to chan- countries in the middle east, for a total consideration of 
ges in life-style, urbanization and convenience11: a) performance € 84.8 million (refer to section d. 02. a) of the consolidated 
delivery hero recorded a significant increase in sales rev­ financial statements).
—   increasing online and mobile engagement means   enue (87.6%) and 60.0% on a like-for-like basis between 
that potential customers are increasingly using online  2017 and 2016. organic revenue growth was strengthened  in october 2017, we increased our share in fly & company 
platforms for shopping purposes. we estimate that  by the acquisitions of the foodpanda group in december  inc., korea, from 21.0% to 100%. fly & company inc. oper­
approximately 11% of the food delivery market trans­ 2016 and the carriage group in june 2017. the negative  ates the food delivery platform foodfly. in addition, we 
actions in the delivery hero countries took place  adjusted € 94.2 million ebitda of the segments (previous  acquired 100% of the shares in the panama based 
online in 2016. in our europe segment, we estimate  year: € 71.2 million) was slightly above expected range of   appetito24 group. appetito24, also an online food delivery 
that 14% of food delivery transactions in 2016 took  € 79.5 million to € 93.0 million, due to higher investments,  platform, is the market leader in panama. the acquisition 
place online, in mena 6%, in the americas 4% and in  primarily marketing related, that resulted in revenue  costs of both transactions amount to a total of € 11.0 million 
asia 15%. we believe that these low online delivery  growth above expectation. the negative adjusted ebitda  in cash and € 2.4 million of previously held interest in the 
penetration rates provide more potential for growth  margin of the segments for 2017 improved significantly  acquiree (refer to section d. 02. b) of the consolidated 
than significantly higher rates in mature markets,  from 25% to 17% in line with the 15% to 17% targeted band. financial statements).
such as the uk which has online penetration of 49% 
in 2016.
 9 s ource: euromonitor international; economies and consumers;  
global food market represents consumer expenditure on food and catering, 
value at fixed 2016 exchange rates; data as of 2016.
10 euromonitor international; consumer foodservice; data as of 2016.
11 estimations based on internal company market analysis; data as of 2016.
combined   b. economic report  annual report 2017
management report
d) discontinued operations and divestments consolidated statement of profit or loss and   adjusted ebitda of the segments reconciles to earnings 
in line with delivery hero’s strategy to further build up its  other comprehensive income  before income taxes as follows:
leadership positions and consolidate markets, the com pany  the 2017 group result from continuing operations deve-
announced its intent to sell its hungryhouse group, which  loped as follows:  continuing operations
operates an online food ordering portal for the british 
change
market on december 15, 2016. the buyer of the shares is  continuing operations
  eur 
just eat plc (just eat). the divestment was subject to the  change eur million 2017 2016  million %
approval of the united kingdom’s competition and markets 
  eur   
authority (cma), which was received on november 17, 2017  eur million 2017 2016  million % adjusted ebitda 
and was executed on january 31, 2018 (refer to section d. 03. e)  of the segments –94.2 –71.2 –23.0 32.3
 
of the consolidated financial statements). revenue 543.7 289.9 253.8 87.6 consolidation 
adjusments –2.1 –0.6 –1.5 > 100
cost of sales –197.9 –77.2 –120.7 > 100
in december 2017, the dh group sold a 95.0% stake of its  management 
gross profit 345.8 212.7 133.1 62.6
foodpanda india business to ani technologies private  adjustments –32.9 –11.2 –21.7 > 100
marketing 
limited (ani), india, holding company of the ola group in  expenses for 
expenses –327.1 –222.6 –104.5 46.9
80 return for a minority stake in the ola group. the resulting  share-based 
it expenses –45.1 –31.3 –13.8 43.9  compensation –69.5 –15.8 –53.8 > 100
disposal gain (€ 20.3 million) is recognized in other operat­
ing income. dh group’s subsidiaries in georgia and kazakh­ general adminis­ other reconcilia­
trative expenses –221.5 –100.9 –120.6 > 100 tion items 8.3 –8.1 16.4 > 100
stan were sold in 2017.
other operating  amortization  
income 25.3 2.2 23.2 > 100 and depreciation –54.7 –52.9 –1.8 3.3
other operating  net interest  
03.  net assets, financial position and 
expenses –22.7 –19.9 –2.7 13.7 and other  
results of operations 
financial result –91.3 –42.5 –48.9 > 100
operating result –245.1 –159.8 –85.3 53.3
earnings before 
a) financial performance of the group net interest cost –17.9 –33.1 15.2 –45.9 income taxes –336.4 –202.3 –134.1 66.3
delivery hero sold its hungryhouse business activities in  other financial 
result –73.4 –9.3 –64.1 > 100
the united kingdom on january 31, 2018. accordingly, this 
business is presented as discontinued operations and not  earnings before 
income taxes –336.4 –202.3 –134.1 66.3
subject to the following discussion of net assets, financial 
positions and result of operations (unless otherwise stated). 
combined   b. economic report  annual report 2017
management report
development of revenue (2014–2017): gmv by quarter1 group revenue by type1
eur million eur million
annual revenue growth1
47.0
eur million other1
26.8
520.9 538.1 586.0 678.8
2016 2,323.8 prime  41.5
2014 88.00 placings 29.9
2015 166.20 846.2 906.4 975.3 1,096.4
delivery  47.3
2017 3,824.3
20162 289.90 services 15.9
q1        q2        q3        q4
2017 543.70
408.0
commissions
2 refer to note e. 02. a) of the consolidated financial stetements. 217.3
2016 revenue continued operations          
the delivery hero group increased its revenue in 2017 by  2017 revenue continued operations
€ 253.8 million (87.6%) to € 543.7 million. besides strong  2 adjusted, refer to section e. 02. a) of the consolidated financial statements.
revenue by quarter1 organic revenue growth due to continuing investments  81
eur million primarily in marketing, the acquisition of the entities of the   
foodpanda group in december 2016 contributed to this  commissions revenues increased by 87.6% to € 408.0 million 
increase. on a like-for-like basis, revenue increased by 59.8%  (previous year: € 217.3 million) representing 75.0% of total 
between 2016 and 2017. this increase is due to the increased  revenue. delivery revenues increased by 201.3% to 
62.8 67.5 72.9 86.7 number of orders. the number of orders in the reporting  € 47.3 million (previous year: € 15.9 million).
20162 289.90
period increased by 70.6% in comparison to the financial 
year 2016, to 291.5 million. on a like-for-like basis orders  development of adjusted ebitda
121.2 132.0 140.9 149.6
2017 543.70 increased by 47.9%. besides commission and delivery reve-
nue, revenue from premium placements also increased  adjusted ebitda of the segments1
q1        q2        q3        q4
significantly in the reporting period. eur million
2 refer to note e. 02. a) of the consolidated financial stetements.
orders by quarter1 –108.8 2015
million
–71.2 2016
–94.2 2017
38.9 40.5 41.5 50.0
2016 170.9
63.0 68.8 74.3 85.4
2017 291.5
q1        q2        q3        q4
1 continuing operations.
combined   b. economic report  annual report 2017
management report
in 2017 the negative adjusted ebitda increase to € 94.2   (2017: € 66.0 million, previous year: € 29.2 million) and  general administrative expenses amount to € 221.5 million 
million (2016: negative € 71.2 million). on like-for-like basis,  external riders and other operating delivery personnel  in 2017 (previous year: € 100.9 million). this is mainly due 
the negative adjusted ebitda improved by € 18.4 million,  (2017: € 78.0 million, previous year: € 21.9 million). in addi­ to a € 53.8 million increase in share-based compensation 
from € 112.6 million to € 94.2 million. the negative  adjusted   tion, fees for payment services increased by € 12.2 million  expenses to € 69.5 million and a € 37.5 million increase in 
ebitda margin improved from 24% (or 34% on like-for-like)  due to a higher online payment share. other personnel expenses to € 63.7 million. share-based 
to 17%. although the investment in further growth of the  payment expenses in 2017 increased due to an increased 
group caused the adjusted ebitda to increase, the adjusted  marketing expenses number of awards granted following the roll-over of minori­
negative ebitda margin improved as a result of scaling  eur million ties preceding the ipo as well as valuation effects. the 
effects in marketing, it and general administrative expens­ increase in general administrative expenses is further 
es. in contrast, cost of sales increased in proportion to  affected by the acquisition of the foodpanda group in 
revenue due to the addition of more own delivery business­ –77.5 2014 december 2016. 
es from the acquired foodpanda group as well as the roll 
–200.5 2015
out of own delivery in many more markets in 2017. other operating income increased in 2017 to € 25.3 million 
–222.6 2016 (previous year: € 2.2 million). the increase is due to the 
cost of sales –327.1 2017 disposal gain of € 20.3 million for the divestment of food­
82 eur million panda india in december 2017. other operating expenses 
amount to € 22.6 million in 2017 (previous year: € 19.9 million). 
the evolution is mainly due to a € 9.3 million increase in 
–16.9 2014 marketing expenses increased by € 104.5 million year-on- expenses for bad debt allowances to € 15.3 million in 2017 
year to € 327.1 million. they mainly include expenses for  that reflects the increased business activities. in addition, 
–29.3 2015
customer acquisition of € 180.0 million (previous year:  the other operating expenses comprise impairments of 
–77.2 2016 € 108.3 million) and expenses relating to restaurant acqui­ goodwill relating to the cgu croatia and cgu 9cookies 
–197.8 2017 sition of € 73.6 million (previous year: € 56.2 million). this  amounting to a total of € 4.0 million.
increase reflects the organic growth, the acquisition of the 
foodpanda group and increased competition in certain  b) business development by segment
markets. delivery hero has divided its operating activities into the 
  operating segments europe, mena, asia and the americas. 
delivery expenses (€ 144.0 million, previous year: € 50.8   it expenses increased by € 13.8 million to € 45.1 million. they  the key financial performance indicators for managing the 
million) represent 72.8% (previous year: 65.8%) of cost of  mainly comprise personnel expenses. most of our it  group are revenue and adjusted ebitda. while revenue is 
sales in 2017 (€ 197.8 million, previous year: € 77.2 million)  expenses are invested in r&d of our local platforms and  indicative of the group’s ability to grow and to provide 
resulting in a disproportional increase of cost of sales  central support functions to enhance the value for our  attractive service offerings to its customers, adjusted e bitda  
(156.2%) to the increase of revenue (87.5%) year-on-year.  partner restaurants and to further improve the customer  indicates the group’s ability to become profitable.
this development is due to the expansion of the delivery  experience (2017: about € 29.0 million; 2016: about 
business in 2017, especially in mena and the americas.  € 16.5 million).
delivery expenses comprise own driver/rider personnel 
combined   b. economic report  annual report 2017
management report
group revenue by segments 2017 the performance of our segments is summarized based on  change
the main kpis below:   eur 
eur million 2017 2016  million %
8.7% change
 
americas   eur  europe –45.5 –47.5 2.1 –4.4
eur million 2017 2016  million %
mena  23.9 21.2 2.7 12.6
26.6% 36.5%  
asia –47.1 –25.1 –22.0 87.8
europe 198.8 140.6 58.2 41.4
asia europe
americas –25.4 –19.7 –5.7 28.8
mena  153.3 75.5 77.7 > 100
adjusted ebitda 
asia 144.8 49.3 95.5 > 100
of the segments –94.2 –71.2 –23.0 32.3
28.2% americas  47.4 24.8 22.5 90.8 consolidation 
mena segment revenue  544.2 290.3 253.9 87.5 adjusments –2.1 –0.6 –1.5 > 100
consolidation – – – – management 
adjustments –32.9 –11.2 –21.7 > 100
reconciliation 
effects –0.5 –0.4 1 –0.1 1 17.0 1 expenses for 
  share-based  83
group revenue 543.7 289.9 1 253.9 1 87.6 1
   compensation –69.5 –15.8 –53.8 > 100
group revenue by segments 2016 1  the 2016 comparative group revenue and reconciliation effects are adjusted.  other 
contractual provisions have been misinterpreted by assuming the dh group to    reconciliation 
act as principal for certain food sales to end customers with the result of recog­
nizing revenue and cost of sales on a gross basis. 2016 group revenues and   items 8.3 –8.1 16.4 > 100
reconciliation effects are adjusted (by € –7.1 million). cost of sales are adjusted 
8.5% amortization and 
correspondingly by this amount. 
depreciation –54.7 –52.9 –1.8 3.3
americas
net interest  
17.0% and other  
48.5%
asia financial result –91.3 –42.5 –48.9 > 100
europe
earnings before 
income taxes –336.4 –202.3 –134.1 66.3
26.0%
mena
management adjustments relate to costs for services relat­
ing to business transactions and financing rounds of € 22.3  
million (previous year: € 6.3 million), expenses for the reali-
  zation of capital market viability of € 5.0 million (previous 
year: € 2.4 million), costs for reorganization measures of 
€ 5.1 million (previous year: € 1.8 million) and costs for the 
implementation of information technologies of € 0.5 million 
(previous year: € 0.8 million).
combined   b. economic report  annual report 2017
management report
other reconciliation items include non-operating income  europe the adjusted ebitda in our mena segment increased from 
and expenses. in 2017, this item included in particular gains  in 2017, the europe segment increased strongly in revenue  € 21.2 million in 2016 to € 23.9 million in 2017. the adjusted 
from the disposal of subsidiaries of € 19.5 million (previous  by 41% to € 198.8 million (2016: € 140.6 million) and in orders  ebitda margin decreased from 28.1% in 2016 to 15.5% in 
year: € –1.5 million), impairment of other assets and other  by 42% to 73 million (2016: 52 million). besides organic  2017, which results from higher customer acquisition costs 
receivables of € 0.6 million (previous year: € 2.9 million) as  growth, the acquisition of the foodpanda group in decem­ as well as the introduction of own delivery in ksa and 
well as non-income-tax of € 6.2 million (previous year:  ber 2016 contributed to this trend. on a like-for-like basis  kuwait. the carriage group, acquired in june 2017, which 
€ 2.6 million).  revenue grew by 36% and orders by 28% year-on-year. provides own delivery services also affected the adjusted 
ebitda margin.
number of orders despite further revenue growth in 2017, including year-on-
year higher investments in gaining new users, the adjusted  asia 
change
ebitda did improve from negative € 47.5 million in 2016 to  in 2017, the asia segment grew positively with increasing 
million 2017 2016  million %
negative € 45.5 million. accordingly, the negative adjusted  revenue (194%) to € 144.8 million (2016: € 49.3 million) and 
 
ebitda margin for the europe segment improved from  orders (129%) to 67.6 million (2016: 29.5 million). besides 
europe 73.3 51.6 21.7 41.9
negative 33.7% in 2016 to negative 22.9% in 2017. the sig­ organic growth the acquisition of the foodpanda group in 
mena 123.1 70.0 53.1 75.9
nificant organic growth in the europe segment is attribut­ december 2016, adding many new asian markets to the 
asia 67.6 29.5 38.1 128.8
84 able to our home market of germany and other european  group’s portfolio, contributed significantly to this trend. 
americas 27.5 19.6 7.9 40.6 markets. on like-for-like basis revenue grew by 66% and orders by 
total 291.5 170.7 120.8 70.7 48% year-on-year.
mena 
in 2017, the mena segment continued to grow strongly in  the negative adjusted ebitda in our asia segment increased 
gmv revenue (103%) to € 153.3 million (2016: € 75.5 million) and  to negative € 47.1 million (2016: negative € 25.1 million). this 
in orders (76%) to 123 million (2016: 70 million). the food­ increase particularly results from higher delivery expenses 
change
panda brands acquired in december 2016, particularly  in connection with the introduction of own delivery  services 
eur 
eur million 2017 2016  million % hungerstation and otlob, significantly contributed to these  in further markets contributed by the foodpanda group in 
increases. on a like-for-like basis, revenue grew by 87% and  2017. the negative adjusted ebitda margin improved to 
 
europe 1,160.5 850.7 309.8 36.4 orders by 63% year-on-year.  negative 32.5% in 2017 (2016: negative 50.9%). 
mena 1,369.9 784.0 585.9 74.7
asia 924.4 457.3 467.1 102.1
americas 369.5 231.8 137.7 59.4
total 3,824.3 2,323.8 1,500.5 64.6
combined   b. economic report  annual report 2017
management report
americas   cash flows from financing activities (continued and discon­
in 2017, revenue in the americas segment increased by  eur million 2017 2016 tinued operations) of € 748.8 million (2016: € 58.4 million) 
90.8% to € 47.4 million (2016: € 24.8 million) and the num­   resulted in particular from capital injections in the course 
ber of orders grew by 41% to 28.0 million (2016: 19.6   cash and cash equivalents   of the naspers funding round (€ 301.4 million) in may 2017 
as of jan. 11 230.9 160.2
million). beside the growth in commission revenue, revenue  and the capital increase in december 2017 (€ 360.1 million). 
from premium placements and revenues for delivery fees  cash flows from   in the course of the ipo of delivery hero ag on june 30, 
operating activities –210.6 –96.0
increased in comparison with the previous period. 2017, the company received liquid funds in the amount of 
cash flows from  
€ 467.9 million (net of transaction costs).
investing activities –117.5 111.8
although adjusted ebitda increased by 28.8% to negative 
cash flows from  
€ 25.4 million in 2017 (2016: negative € 19.7 million) the  loans and bank liabilities, taking into account the addition­
financing activities 748.8 58.4
negative adjusted ebitda margin improved from negative  al take out of an amount of € 25.0 million in the beginning 
effect of exchange rate  
79.4% to negative 53.6% in 2017.  of 2017, were repaid (€ 393.4 million) with proceeds from 
movements on cash  
and cash equivalents –10.5 –3.6 either the naspers financing round or the ipo. 
c) financial position
net change in  
the delivery hero group treasury function manages the  cash and cash equivalents 420.6 74.3 as a result of the capital and liquidity measures described 
liquidity requirements for delivery hero ag and its consoli- cash and cash equivalents   above, the group’s financial position as of december 31, 2017  85
dated subsidiaries. the primary goal of financial manage­ as of dec. 311 640.9 230.9 has improved significantly compared to december 31, 2016. 
ment is the timely provision of liquidity to the group’s 
1  cash included in a disposal group classified as held for sale  
subsidiaries, meeting the group’s payment obligation in  december 31, 2017: € 13.6 million (december 31, 2016: € 2.0 million). cash and cash equivalents increased by € 410.0 million to 
due course and efficiently consign excess funds in banks.  € 640.9 million as of the reporting date (december 31, 2016: 
financial management is based on 36 months cash forecast   cash flows from operating activities (continued and dis­ € 230.9 million), which exclude the cash from the sale of 
for the group and a detailed monthly liquidity plan for the  continued operations) was still negative at € 210.6 million,  hungryhouse in january 2018. 
operating entities of the group. cash inflow from financing  due to many group entities not yet reaching break-even 
rounds and capital increases are administered by  and the emphasis on growth throughout 2017. cash and cash equivalents were not subject to any signifi­
delivery hero ag and will be allocated to subsidiaries and  cant restrictions as of the reporting date.
provided for strategic  measures as needed. during the  the operating cash flows are affected by higher cost of 
reporting period the group was able to meet its payment  sales, predominately delivery costs, but also, higher costs  as of december 31, 2017 the group had unused credit lines 
obligations at any time. in all other functional areas, including marketing, it and  from third parties amounting to € 75.0 million (previous 
gene ral administration. trade working capital increased  year: € 25.0 million).
the financial position of the group is shown on the basis  during 2017.
of the following condensed statement of cash flows:
cash flows from investing activities (continued and discon­
tinued operations) of negative € 117.5 million mainly 
includes payment for the acquisition of shares in the 
 carriage group (€ 84.8 million, net of cash € 81.6 million), 
the acquisition of fly & company and the appetito24 group 
(together € 11.0 million, net of cash € 9.5 million), as well as 
investments in intangible assets (€ 6.5 million) and proper­
ty, plant and equipment (€ 16.6 million).  
combined   b. economic report  annual report 2017
management report
d) net assets non-current assets remain the largest portion of the 
the group’s balance sheet is structured as follows: balance sheet with 61% as of december 31, 2017 (previous 
year: 80%). they mainly comprise intangible assets of 
restated1   € 1,222.6 million (previous year: € 1,294.0 million), there­
eur million dec. 31, 2017 % dec. 31, 2016 % change
of goodwill € 713.5 million (previous year: € 691.2 million12), 
  trademarks € 367.7 million (previous year: € 437.0 million) 
non-current assets 1,283.6 61 1,323.9 80 –40.3
and customer base € 126.0 million (previous year: 
current assets 764.6 39 308.2 20 456.4 € 148.0 million). goodwill of € 79.8 million resulted from 
total assets 2,048.2 100 1,632.1 100 416.1 the acquisition of the carriage group, € 12.4 million from 
the acquisitions of fly & company inc. and the  appetitios24 
group in 2017. the decrease in intangible assets 
  (€ 71.4 million) resulted primarily from foreign currency 
eur million dec. 31, 2017 % dec. 31, 2016 % change
effects notably the appreciation of the euro. 
 
equity 1,720.8 84 892.2 55 828.6
the significant increase in current assets in 2017 is mainly 
86 non-current liabilities 105.2 5 502.6 31 –397.4 due to the increase in cash from the measures mentioned 
current liabilities 222.2 11 237.3 15 –15.1 above.
total liabilities and equity  2,048.2 100 1,632.1 100 416.1
structure of statement of financial position 
1  refer to section a.02. of the consolidated financial statements.
(in % of liabilities and equity)
the increase in the group’s total assets resulted primarily  structure of statement of financial position 
liabilities included in a disposal  0
from the funds received in the ipo as of june 30, 2017  (in % of total assets) group classified as held for sale 1
(€ 467.9 million (net of transaction costs)), the naspers 
55
equity
funding round in may 2017 (€ 301.4 million) and the capital  84
increase in december 2017 (€ 360.1 million (net of transac­ assets included in a disposal group 1 liabilities 7
classified as held for sale 1 to banks 0
tion costs)). this increase was partly offset by the repayment 
of all bank liabilities (december 31, 2016: € 116.4 million)  aostsheetsr 23 anpde nosthioenr  pprroovviissiioonnss 15
and all loan payables (december 31, 2016: € 230.8 million). trade and 24
trade and 3 other payables 7
other receivables 4
  other 9
cash and 14 liabilities 7
cash equivalents 31
dec. 31, 2016        dec. 31, 2017
intangible and 80
tangible assets 61
dec. 31, 2016        dec. 31, 2017
12 r estated.
combined   b. economic report  annual report 2017
management report
equity increased due to the following major measures in  as of the reporting date, non-current liabilities mainly  strengthened its position in the group’s relevant markets 
2017: include deferred tax liabilities of € 81.7 million (previous  in the financial year 2017. the company’s targets for revenue 
year: € 108.1 million), recognized upon acquisition account­ and adjusted ebidta margin were met. the negative 2017 
—   ipo proceeds (net of transaction cost)   ing of previous business combinations. the decline in  adjusted  ebitda  (€ 94.2 million) is slightly higher as expect­
€ 467.9 million in june 2017 non-current liabilities (€ 397.4 million) is mainly due to the  ed due to additional investments into growth that could be 
—   naspers financing round of € 301.4 million   repayment of all bank liabilities (previous year: € 116.4 million)  achieved in 2017. the corresponding revenue growth above 
in may 2017 as well as all loan payables (previous year: € 230.8 million)  expectations helped to improve the negative adjusted 
—   capital increase in december 2017 € 360.1 million   with ipo proceeds.  ebitda margin significantly and to achieve the expected 
(net of transaction cost) adjusted ebitda margin in 2017 (17%). 
—   restructuring of existing virtual share option pro­ the decline in current liabilities is primarily due to the 
grams into a new uniform share option program in  restructuring of the share-based compensation arrange­
may 2017. the new share option program is classified  ments, resulting in a reclassification of all equity settled  04. employees
as an equity-settled award, whereas the previous  awards in may 2017 from provision for share-based com­
 programs were classified as cash-settled, resulting in  pensation to equity (december 31, 2017: € 12.3 million;  the average number of employees increased from 6,848 in 
an overall effect of € 110.4 million on equity, thereof  december 31, 2016: € 64.6 million). 2016 to 12,882 in 2017. this increase, which occurred pri­
€ 91.4 million reclassification from other provisions   marily in the areas of delivery and operations, was a result  87
as of the date of restructuring (refer to section h. 01.  e) overall assessment of the acquisitions made in late 2016 and during 2017 as 
of the consolidated financial statements). the management board assesses the financial position,  well as the expansion of the delivery business. in addition, 
financial performance and earnings situation as positive  operating activities were expanded across the group. as 
contrarily, equity is reduced by the 2017 total comprehen­ and in view of the considerable growth in the reporting  of december 31, 2017 delivery hero employed 14,631 staff 
sive loss of € 446.9 million (previous year: € 256.5 million). year, in line with expectations. delivery hero increased its  (previous year: 9,209).
revenue significantly, made strategic investments and 
combined   c. risk and opportunity report  annual report 2017
management report
c. risk and opportunity report —   the management board, the global and local erm  materiality thresholds
functions and local management teams are respon- materiality is the threshold when financial information is 
sible for enhancing risk culture and risk awareness.  considered to have an impact on delivery hero’s results. 
01. risk policy principles and risk strategy  delivery hero stands for a strong tone from the top  risk-related materiality thresholds are derived from our risk 
with regards to erm and all other governance, risk  appetite. based on the current growth focus of the group, 
we consider a risk as a threat of an event, action or non-  and compliance matters (grc) in general. accordingly  the key metric used as reference for the definition of the 
action  occurring that could adversely affect delivery hero’s  over the past two years group management strength­ materiality thresholds is revenue. however,  supplementary  
ability to achieve its business objectives or implement its  ened the grc and internal audit function by adding  profitability metrics are likely to be consider to determine 
strategy. when identifying risks, both negative impacts and  relevant expertise, embedding local risk management  the materiality threshold going forward.
lost opportunities are considered equally. policies in local entities supported by central subject 
matter experts and further having internal audit  delivery hero distinguishes between two types of materi­
in 2017, the group had no formalized opportunity manage­  perform an audit of the group cfo function. ality thresholds:
ment system in place. accordingly, the risk management  —   the erm ensures a uniform risk understanding 
system (rms) described focusses entirely on risks. throughout the group by setting definitions, rules  —   reporting thresholds for the identification and assess­
and procedures and by documenting them in the   ment of risks. if exceeded, the risks have to be inclu-
88 the group’s rms in 2017 corresponds substantially with the  erm manual. ded in the group’s enterprise risk assessment and our 
system implemented in the previous year. —   every employee within the group has the respon- regular reporting process. the reporting threshold, 
sibility to proactively participate in and support erm. considered to have an insignificant financial impact,  
a) risk policy principles —   erm enables risk awareness in business decisions. is defined as follows: group revenue x 1% x 0.5 
our enterprise risk management (“erm”) is based on the  (€ 2.7 million in 2017).
following principles: b) risk strategy —   materiality limits/escalation criteria for ad-hoc 
the main goal of delivery hero’s risk strategy is not neces­ reporting. if exceeded during the monitoring phase, 
—   conscious acceptance of economically viable risks   sarily to avoid all present and future risks, but to assess risk  risks have to be immediately reported to the risk 
is an essential part of any business activity. with regards to costs and benefits and to preserve risk  manager, the management board or the supervisory 
—   the goal of erm is not to avoid risks but to ensure  transparency.  board, depending on the risk level (low, medium, 
risk transparency through a systematic erm process.  high). the materiality limit/escalation criteria for 
thereby, risks can be accepted if they are known,  risk appetite ad-hoc reporting, corresponding to a medium finan­
assessed, managed and monitored. further, in   the risk appetite expresses how much risk a company’s  cial impact, is defined as follows: greater group  
consideration of cost-benefit aspects, an accepted  management is willing to accept to achieve its goals. it can  revenue x 2.5% (> € 10.0 million in 2017).
risks should correlate with a potential high return   be also defined as deviations from the medium-term plan 
and increase in the value of the group. that the company is willing to accept – within the defined 
—   erm is an integral part of delivery hero’s business  and pursued strategy. 
processes and relates to all business activities  
within the group. we consider ourselves as “risk-seekers”, as we are engaged 
in a young and innovative business with relatively high 
inherent risks that rewards with potentially high returns.
combined   c. risk and opportunity report  annual report 2017
management report
02. g  roup-wide risk management   delivery hero’s rms consists of the pillars risk identification,  b) risk assessment
system (rms) risk assessment, risk treatment, risk monitoring and risk  after identification, the risk owners, supported by local risk 
reporting. this includes the risk management process and  managers, assess their individual risks based on the evalu­
the key objectives of delivery hero’s rms are to manage  its instruments as well as all underlying principles and  ation criteria described below. those criteria are applicable 
and streamline the group-wide risk management process,  guidelines. the rms is closely aligned with the determina­ to all subsidiaries of delivery hero to ensure that all risks 
to control all risk management related activities and to  tion of the group’s strategy and its business objectives,  are assessed uniformly in order assure to comparability.
ensure a comprehensive view on all significant risks of the  including safeguarding of the group’s assets and the value 
group. the rms identifies, assesses, manages, mitigates  chain. the rms deals with all significant risks, not only with  risks are assessed in respect to two dimensions:
and monitors risks. risks that could jeopardize the existence of the group. 
—   impact is the extent to which the risk, if realized, 
delivery hero’s rms considers the key elements in accor­ a) risk identification would affect delivery hero and its objectives. 
dance with section 315 (2), no. 1a hgb and the internation­ risks are identified by all employees of delivery hero, by our  —   likelihood is defined as the probability of a risk 
ally recognized coso framework of the committee of  nominated risk owners throughout the different departments  occurring over a predefined period.
sponsoring organizations of the treadway commission. and by local and global risk managers. this happens through 
data analyses, process reviews, interviews and actual events. the combination of likelihood of occurrence and impact 
results in the risk assessment.  89
risk
identification assessment treatment monitoring reporting
risks are iden tified  identified risks are  assessed risks are  all identified risks  monitored risks are 
and listed through  assessed  according    treated  according to  and the r elated   periodically reported 
data research,  to their likelihood  one of the selected   response strategies  to  management. 
 interviews, review   and impacts which   risk responses: avoid,  are closely and 
of processes and  is determining the  reduce/mitigate,   regular monitored. 
 follow up of  risk rating. transfer or accept. key risk indicators 
 incidents. are the main tools 
used for monitoring.
combined   c. risk and opportunity report  annual report 2017
management report
identified risks in the red area of the matrix require imme­ the impact scale ranges from insignificant (score of one)  iv.  high: temporary loss of business functionality and capa-
diate action from management with high priority or need  to disastrous (score of five): city, major violation/damage to reputation, but without 
to be monitored closely. risks of the amber area are cate­ long-term and subsequent effects or large financial 
gorized as medium risks which require mid-term action  i.   insignificant: the risk does not affect the daily perfor­ losses
and/or regular monitoring. risks in the green area are not  mance/insignificant financial losses/no injuries
excluded from actions but have a lower priority. v.  critical: massive financial losses/bankruptcies/death, 
ii.  low: minimal impairment of daily business/first aid for  reputational damage or damage of the relationship with 
for assessing the potential impact of a risk, different per­ injuries required/situation immediately under control/  the stakeholders.
spectives are considered. risks can be evaluated either from  low financial losses
a quantitative (financial) perspective and/or from qualita­ the financial impact is usually the primary scale for the 
tive perspectives such as business objectives, brand image,  iii. m  edium: medium interruptions of daily business/ medical  impact assessment.
operations, health, legal and environment.  care needed in case of injuries/medium financial losses/
damage is limited by external assistance
90
risk matrix and financial impact scale of delivery hero
likelihood
(1 – 20%) (> 20 – 40%) (> 40 – 60%) (> 60 – 80%) (< 80%)
medium medium high high high
critical (€ > 50 million)
medium medium medium high high
high (€ 25–50 million)
low medium medium medium high
impact medium (€ 12,5–25 million)
low low medium medium medium
low (€ 2,5–12,5 million)
low low low medium medium
insignificant (€ < 2,5 million )
combined   c. risk and opportunity report  annual report 2017
management report
gross versus net risk c) risk treatment iii.  risk transfer: the risk can be transferred to a third p arty, 
in a first step, we evaluate a risk without considering the  the treatment of risks encompasses actions or strategies  insurance, or consulting company.
effect of the risk treatment strategy (see next section) and  to manage identified and assessed risks. one of the five 
the risk mitigation measures (the gross risk). in the second  following options needs to be chosen by the risk owner in  iv. r isk acceptance: taking no action can be favored con­
step, we then define the remaining net risk, taking into  alignment with management: sidering cost-benefit analysis.
account the risk treatment as well as the implementation 
of any risk mitigation measures. i.   risk avoidance: risk can be avoided by stopping a certain  v.   risk diversification: e.g. spreading risk through serving 
activity that is posing the risk. of multiple markets
the chart below presents the differences between gross 
and net risk. ii.   risk reduction/mitigation: risk can be reduced by taking  d) risk monitoring
necessary measures. risk monitoring refers to the continuous follow-up of iden­
tified, assessed and treated risks with the respective risk 
controller and/or local risk and compliance manager with 
differences between gross and net risk the purpose of evaluating the latest likelihoods and impacts 
as well as to monitor and re-evaluate the defined actions 
and the progress of implementation. continuous risk moni- 91
identified risks toring is a collective responsibility between the global risk 
managers, local risk managers, as well as with the respec­
tive risk owners. continued risk monitoring is carried on 
monthly basis. 
inherent risk (=gross)
risks that exist without consideration of controls or other management activities
e) risk reporting
we have established the following reporting structure for 
the key risks identified:
risk treatment/mitigration measures:
i.   quarterly risk & compliance committee meeting (consis-
ics 1. responsibilities
ting of management board, general counsel and internal 
2. processes, policies, ics
audit)
3. training/communication
4. monitoring/improvement
ii.  r egular updates to the audit committee (consisting of 
5. insurance
supervisory board members, cfo, internal audit and 
actual plan general counsel)
iii. on demand updates to the supervisory board
residual risk (=net)
risks that exist with consideration of controls   acceptable residual risk (=target)
iv.  ad-hoc updates for critical risks to the management 
or other management activities
board and/or supervisory board.
combined   c. risk and opportunity report  annual report 2017
management report
03.  system of internal financial   selected complex reporting topics, e.g. business combina­ on an annual basis, internal audit prepares an internal audit 
reporting controls tions and share-based compensation arrangements, is  plan taking into consideration risks identified and assessed 
centrally administered in order to comply with the group’s  from the rms. this risk-based audit plan is approved by the 
in addition to the group-wide rms, delivery hero has  reporting requirements. risks are further mitigated by the  audit committee and audits are conducted to assess the 
implemented a detailed system of internal financial report­ cross functional exchange among central functions, in  adequacy and effectiveness of delivery hero’s system of 
ing controls. this system aims to identify, evaluate and  particular between legal, strategy and group accounting.  internal controls in addressing strategic, operational, infor­
control all risks that could have a significant impact on the  identified risks are continuously monitored and reassessed.  mation technology, financial, and compliance risks. on a 
proper preparation of the consolidated financial state­ based on this assessment and in accordance with require­ quarterly basis, the head of internal audit also provides the 
ments. as a key component of the accounting and reporting  ments of the respective international financial reporting  audit committee of the supervisory board with an internal 
process, the system of internal financial reporting controls  standards the risks are reflected and disclosed in the  audit report. this report includes the status of the audits in 
comprises preventive, monitoring and investigative control  group’s consolidated financial statements. the system of  the annual internal audit plan, key findings arising from 
measures in accounting and operational functions which  internal controls is subject to regular reviews by the grc  completed audits and the implementation status of out­
ensure a methodical and consistent process for preparing  department and/or risk-based assessments performed by  standing management action plans.
the financial statements. the control system is based on  internal audit.
the various group processes that have a significant impact 
92 on financial reporting. 05. risk report 
04. internal audit system
these processes and the relevant risk for the financial  our overall risk situation remains at an elevated level which 
reporting are analyzed and documented. a control matrix  the primary role of internal audit is to assist the manage­ we consider normal for a “young” business like ours. it is 
contains all controls, including a description of the control,  ment board in achieving the organization’s stated goals and  largely unchanged year-on-year, although some of the indi­
type of control, frequency with which it is carried out. we  objectives by providing independent and objective evalua­ vidual risk areas (strategic, operational, compliance and 
have implemented standardized monthly reporting and  tion of the adequacy and effectiveness of the organization’s  finance) may have increased or decreased compared to 
review procedures for subsidiary financial statements.  governance, risk management, and internal controls.  december 31, 2016. individual risks are generally assessed for 
these are subject to a multi-level monthly review process  existence for a twelve month period from the reporting date.
on regional and group level to ensure consistency and  internal audit within delivery hero is an independent func­
correctness across the group. our global accounting man­ tion that reports functionally to the audit committee of the  we describe the key risks of each risk area below. these 
ual provides detailed accounting instructions for all key  supervisory board and administratively to the cfo. internal  risks are applicable to all our segments (unless explicit 
components of the financial statements to the group’s  audit is a function separate and distinct from management,  reference to individual segments is made) and based on 
finance teams. the identification of risks for the consolidat­ the risk, governance and compliance function and the exter­ the gross risk assessment. 
ed financial reporting further involves observations of the  nal auditors. the internal audit function operates to support 
group’s internal audit function and of the results of pre­ strong corporate governance, with reference to applicable  a) strategic risks
ceding statutory audits as well as the assessment of risks  laws, the standards of the institute of internal auditors (iia)  the online food delivery market is becoming increasingly 
by the group accounting function. based on the assessment  and the german institute of internal auditors (deutsches  popular, supported by the growing internet penetration 
of complexity and the involvement of judgement within  institut für interne revision (diir)). internal audit adheres to  and use of smartphones worldwide. however, the industry 
the application of accounting policies, the accounting for  the principles of the iia code of ethics. environment continues to be highly competitive driven by 
combined   c. risk and opportunity report  annual report 2017
management report
new market entrances and large global technology compa­ collect. increasing unemployment rates may impact our  to avoid harm to our systems, we are in the process of imple­
nies entering the food delivery space (ubereats, amazon),  order volume growth, since online food delivery is more  menting measures and we are continuously  evaluating and 
as well as restaurants themselves continuing to invest in  popular among people who spend more time at their  implementing processes in order to achieve a state that 
direct sales channels, both over the phone and online. workplace then at home and have less time to cook. the  reflects best practice processes, which include comprehen­
risk of static economies among the group is low. sive internal controls and employee it expertise. before 
as of today, delivery hero is subject to competitive pressure  implementation, proprietary software is tested within qual­
in various countries, from other aggregator as well as own  in order to identify such strategic risks in a timely manner,  ity assurance processes. methods used to provide defenses 
delivery models and large chains and brands, such as korea  we promote local entrepreneurship and we enable our local  against external attacks include the use of external service 
(with bdmj, kakao, naver ubereats, mcdonalds, pizza hut,  management teams (who know their markets best) to react  providers, redundant systems and regular stress tests. more­
dominos and many others), uae (where zomato and  quickly to individual market changes which impact our  over, an incident management process has been established 
ubereats operates) and germany (lieferando, dominos,  business model.  that enables a systematic search for the causes of any mal­
call-a-pizza, hallopizza and many others) etc. as large ecom­ functions. the risk of data security issues and system mal­
merce companies such as amazon are entering the market,  b) operational risks functions is considered high. 
delivery hero is focusing on maintaining restaurant and end  as an online company, delivery hero operates websites, 
customer loyalty, as well as expanding its market. the risk  platforms, payment solutions and other data systems, which  c) compliance risks
of increasing competitive pressure is considered high. we use to collect, maintain, transmit and store information  government regulations and legal uncertainties may place  93
about our partner restaurants, customers and suppliers.  administrative and financial burdens on our businesses. as 
as we operate in a large number of countries, including  they all rely on the security of our systems and that their  the internet continues to revolutionize commercial rela­
emerging and developing markets, we are subject to eco­ data are handled properly and are not misused. any  tionships on a global scale and the use of the internet and 
nomic, political and legal risks in these countries. unex­  breaches would result in material reputational damage.  mobile devices in everyday life becomes more prevalent, 
pected regulatory or capital market requirements as well  therefore, we are making great efforts to maintain and  new laws and regulations relating to the internet and the 
as changes in applicable laws are examples which require  continuously improve our data security measures. however,  e-commerce sector in particular may be adopted. these 
delivery hero to flexibly adapt to changes in its markets.  cyberattacks in particular remain the biggest inherent risk  laws and regulations may affect many components of our 
furthermore, turbulences in the financial markets, the  of our business model. as the nature and characteristics of  business such as the collection, use and protection of data 
economic and institutional stability of the eurozone, an  cyberattacks are evolving very fast, there is a risk that new  from website visitors and related privacy issues, online 
expansive monetary policy of large central banks worldwide  security gaps cannot be closed as fast as required. our  payments, pricing, anti-bribery, tax, commission rates 
and an unresolved debt problem in numerous industrial  supervisory and management boards have made cyber  charged to our partner restaurants, content, copyrights, 
and developing countries result in considerable risks for  security one of the key issues for the upcoming year. trademarks, origin, distribution and quality of goods and 
our business. the risk of economic, political, legal and  services. 
financial risks is considered medium. delivery hero is also subject to several business continuity 
risks. as an internet-based company, we are strongly depen­ delivery hero is in the segment europe subject to the eu 
generally, a non-growing economy in one of our operating  dent on the functionality, security and stability of our  payment services directive ii which covers online-based 
markets could cause a reduction of online food ordering  websites and online order platforms. as online food deli- payment services and provides a uniform regulation of 
as purchasing power may decrease. a static economy is one  very is preferred mainly because of its convenience, even  payments via the internet and mobile phones. it increases 
of the factors increasing the counter-party risk, as receiv­ short system downtimes can lead to high financial losses,  customer protection and the requirements for user authen­
ables from our restaurant partners could be harder to  including negative impact on the brand image.  tication. in particular, the payment services directive ii 
combined   c. risk and opportunity report  annual report 2017
management report
prevents european companies without a banking or pay­ as another example, the restaurants in our european seg­ exposing us to foreign currency exchange risks. driven by 
ment services license to collect and hold bank account  ment are subject to numerous food labelling regulations,  our geographic footprint and investing activities outside 
payments resulting from online transactions on behalf of  such as the eu regulation on the provision of food infor­ the european monetary union, such risks are caused by 
restaurants. this forces us to either outsource the provision  mation to consumers, and the german ordinance on food  fluctuations or devaluations of currencies as well as foreign 
of payment services to third parties, to discontinue our  additives approval (zusatzstoff-zulassungsverordnung).  exchange controls or governmental measures that impact 
online payment services, or to apply for a banking or pay­ our online marketplaces are subject to those regulations.  our ability to convert currencies and repatriate dividends, 
ment services license. the adoption or modification of such  these regulations provide for, among other things, labeling  if any. currency exchange risks and movements in foreign 
laws or regulations relating to our operations could  requirements with regard to the name of the food, the list  exchange rates between the euro and the currencies of the 
adversely affect our business by increasing compliance  of ingredients, particularly those known to cause allergies  local markets may materially impact the results of our 
costs, including as a result of confidentiality or security  or intolerances, the net quantity of the food and the use by  operations due to translation effects. adverse translation 
breaches in the case of noncompliance, and the admini- date. compliance with these regulations by our partner  effects are caused by the translation of financial results of 
strative burden. the risk from payment service regulations  restaurants requires that they are aware of the ingredients  our consolidated subsidiaries prepared in their respective 
is considered high. and allergen content of their dishes. we are dependent on  functional currencies into euro, our reporting currency, in 
the accuracy of the relevant information being furnished  the course of preparing the group’s consolidated financial 
in addition, privacy-related regulation of the internet could  to our marketplaces by our partner restaurants. there is no  statements. financial risks are considered medium.
94 interfere with our strategy to collect and use personal  guarantee that the provided information is sufficient and/
information as part of our marketing efforts and opera­ or correct. risks for food labeling requirements are consi- from a financing perspective of our business, we have 
tions. for instance, the european union has enacted the  dered high.  significantly improved our liquidity situation over the past 
general data protection regulation (regulation 2016/679/ months, which has reduced the associated risks of funding 
eu of the european parliament and council of april 27, 2016,  our group is already subject to a complex set of numerous  our operational business as well as our m&a activities. due 
the “general data protection regulation”) which will come  laws and regulations relating to e-commerce, data s ecurity   to successful public share offerings, additional investments 
into effect in may 2018 and which imposes new and s tricter  and protection. we cannot rule out that we have not been  by new shareholders and recent company sales (e.g. hungry­
conditions and limitations on the processing, use and  in full compliance with these provisions in the past, due to  house), delivery hero achieved a strong financial position.
transmission of personal data in our segment europe. we  the complexity and pace of evolvement of both applicable 
must comply with such regulations in the european union,  regulations and our business and organizational structures. 
as well as with other regulations in other countries where  however, we have established programs and projects for  06. opportunity report
we may do business. local authorities may construe the  all of the issues mentioned above, supported by external 
relevant data protection laws in a restrictive way and there  experts, with the objective of complying with these new  the opportunity report deals with the business opportu­
is no guarantee that we will be able to comply with such  regulations as well as being prepared for future regulatory  nities which can result for delivery hero during the course 
restrictive approaches. any noncompliance with the appli­ challenges.  of the year following the reporting date. 
cable regulations on our part could lead to fines and other 
sanctions. for example, the general data protection regu- d) financial risks
lation provides that violations of data protection rules can  we also have to consider exchange rate risks in all our 
be fined, depending on the circumstances, by up to the  segments since our operations are conducted in many 
higher of € 20 million and 4% of the annual global turnover  different currencies, including, among others, the turkish 
of the infringing person. the data privacy related risks are  lira, the argentinian peso, the korean won, the swedish 
considered high. krona, the czech koruna and the great british pound, 
combined   c. risk and opportunity report  annual report 2017
management report d. subsequent events and outlook
macroeconomic development personalization and customer experience d. subsequent events and outlook
the global food market had a size of € 7.5 trillion in 201613  hyper personalization of services and recommendation of 
and we estimate that the food delivery market in the rele­ menu options is targeted to enhance the end-customer  01. subsequent events
vant countries accounted for € 72.2 billion. we believe that  experience. based on data collection and analysis we aim 
growth opportunities in our markets will be driven by  to identify users´ meal preferences before they know them  on january 2, 2018 the dh group made an investment of 
several fundamental tailwinds, including increasing online  themselves. such aspect of convenience may provide fur­ usd 105.0 million for a minority stake in rappi, inc., a del­
and mobile customer engagement and last-mile logistics  ther growth potential.  aware corporation, parent company of the rappi group 
capabilities, as well as shifts in customer behavior due to  (rappi). rappi is the leading on-demand, multi-vertical 
changes in life-style, urbanization and convenience.  enhancing the customer experience by providing services  delivery platform in latin america.
tailored to individual preferences may further increase the 
other market developments user exposure to our websites. this may enable us to gene- on january 31, 2018 dh group sold its hungryhouse business 
as more consumers generate more orders, the marketplace  rate complementary revenue from marketing services as  to just eat for gbp 240,0 million. the business was classified 
becomes more attractive to restaurants, and being listed  well as cross-listing of other services and products.  as a discontinued operation in 2017 and 2016 (refer to sec­
in the marketplace becomes an operational necessity at  tion d. 03. e) of the consolidated financial statements).
some point.  technology
besides delivery hero’s central support function, the group  as of january 31, 2018, delivery hero group acquired 100%  95
we envision growth opportunities by expanding own  delivery  maintains several local platform solutions. we believe that  of the shares in deliveras s.a., greece (deliveras), a food 
services in additional cities.  further integration of global application solutions into local  delivery platform based in athens for a total consideration 
platforms, will cut maintenance and development costs and  of € 4.7 million (refer to section i. of the consolidated finan­
delivery hero operates in more than 40 countries, which  have a positive impact on profitability. cial statements).
provides us with a substantially larger growth opportunity 
in comparison with our peers, lower operational and finan­ personnel opportunities 
cial risks, and a better opportunity in terms of the signifi­ delivery hero leverages from an enormous pool of talented  02. outlook
cant investments in technology. professionals worldwide, which enables the exchange of 
know-how and best practices. this global professional net­ a) macroeconomic and industry outlook 
logistics work will help us dedicate the best resources to  challenges  in march 2018, the imf issued in its world economic out­
innovation in delivery, including demand forecasting models,  we may face in any country.  look a global economic growth of 3.9% for 2018. this 
fleet management and route optimization will enable us to  growth is expected to be driven by a number of factors, 
cost optimize our own delivery business. in the future, alter­ as the delivery hero network grows further, our reputation  such a fiscal stimulus and investments. however, the imf 
native delivery options, including automated guided vehicles  will rise and enable us to attract the best talent in the  also sees a couple of risk factors that can derail the recov­
and drones, may complement the delivery options and  industry. this may become another growth accelerator.  ery – mainly referring to political and trade tensions as well 
increase the coverage of our services. as high debt. 
13 e uromonitor international, economies and consumers, global food market 
 represents consumer expenditure on food and catering, value at fixed 2016 
exchange rate.
combined   d. subsequent events and outlook   annual report 2017
management report e. use of financial instruments
in addition, the global food service market is highly frag­ at the same time, in 2018 the cost base is expected to grow  e. use of financial instruments
mented and inefficient - and thus offers growth opportuni­ disproportionally lower than revenues compared with 2017 
ties14 for delivery hero.  – driven by the scalable nature of our business model. this 
will result in a significant improvement of the negative  01. risk management
delivery hero is well positioned to benefit from these  adjusted ebitda and of the adjusted ebitda margin in 2018 
favorable trends and developments due to its global foot­ compared with 2017. we expect to be breakeven on  adjusted  delivery hero is exposed to default, liquidity and market 
print, the leading market position in key markets and its  ebida basis on a monthly level by end of q4 2018. risks, especially interest rate and foreign currency exchange 
broad customer base. in addition, the global food service  rate risks, from the use of financial instruments. the 
market is highly fragmented and inefficient – enabling  due to the comparatively short history of the group and   objective of financial risk management is to limit these risks 
further growth opportunities. the fact that delivery hero is operating in a relatively new  arising from business activities and to generally avoid 
market, any forecast on the earnings trend is subject to  transactions outside the operating business activities that 
b) company expectations considerable uncertainty. besides factors that can be  may expose the group to additional financial risks. 
in 2017, delivery hero has achieved order, gmv and revenue  impacted by delivery hero, adjusted ebitda is also   accordingly such risks are monitored within our rms and 
growth of 48%, 46% and 60%, respectively, on a like-for-like   contingent on factors that cannot be influenced. for  managed by the groups treasury function. financial risk 
basis. for 2018, we are confident that this momentum will   example, if the group were forced to defend its position  management addresses the risk by selecting appropriate 
96 continue and expect a significant organic increase in orders,  against new competitors in specific markets or to react to  means, including limitation of  external financing in order 
gmv and revenues compared with 2017.this growth will be  revenue downturns, then measures which may not have  to minimize interest rate risks, matching when possible 
driven by: been scheduled previously may have to be implemented  foreign currency denominated cash inflows and outflows 
(e.g. increasing marketing expenditure) which can nega­ within the group to mitigate the foreign currency exposure 
—   further strengthening our position as a leading  tively affect adjusted ebitda and trigger considerable  as well as performance of aging analyses and enforcement 
 global online food ordering and delivery market­ deviations from the estimated results. of higher share of online payment to reduce the default risk. 
place – attracting new customers across more than  in 2017 the group did not enter into hedging transactions 
40 countries.  the assumptions on the economic development of the  to mitigate the risk from financial instruments. 
—   continuously improving the takeaway and delivery  market and the industry are based on assessments which 
experience that we provide to our customers –  the management of the delivery hero group considers 
 translating into high customer loyalty. realistic in line with currently available information. how­ 02. liquidity risk
—   offering the best restaurants on delivery hero’s  ever, these estimates are subject to uncertainty and bring 
 marketplaces via a tightly managed online market­ with them the unavoidable risk that the forecasts do not  liquidity risk is the potential inability to meet the group’s 
place with all relevant cuisines in delivery areas.  occur, either in terms of direction or in relation to extent.  financial obligations due to the lack of financial resources. 
—   further developments in our technology with highly  the forecast for the forecast period is based on the com­ as a result of the naspers financing round in may 2017, the 
automated and innovative services to both c ustomers  position of the group at the time the financial statements  ipo in june 2017, as well as the capital increase in decem­
and  restaurants. were prepared. ber 2017, the group has significantly increased its cash and 
—   increased demand for food ordering and online food  cash equivalents and reduced external financing. financial 
delivery services in the markets the group is active. management is based on a 36 months cash flows forecast 
for the group. in addition the group implemented in 2018 
detailed revolving monthly liquidity plans for the operating 
group companies that facilitate mitigating the liquidity risk.
14 e uromonitor, independent consumer foodservice.
combined   e. use of financial instruments   annual report 2017
management report f. other disclosures
03. market risk 04. default risk 03. corporate governance code
market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such  the credit or default risk is the risk that business partners,  the management and supervisory board of delivery hero ag 
as foreign currency exchange or interest rates, will affect  primarily restaurants, do not meet their payment obliga­ have issued a statement of conformity pursuant to the 
delivery hero’s results or the value of its holdings of finan­ tions, which may result in a loss for the group. this risk  german corporate governance code (section 161 of the 
cial instruments. the group’s entities are exposed to cur­ mainly involves current trade receivables from offline  german stock corporation act (aktg)), which was published 
rency risk in particular with regard to loan obligations  payments. delivery hero is not exposed to a significant  on the website of delivery hero ag in december 2017 
denominated in foreign currencies and intercompany  default risk from a single customer. the default risk is  https://ir.deliveryhero.com.
receivables and payables. the following table shows the  generally spread widely over multiple restaurant partners. 
effects on profit or loss that would result if the foreign  besides an active account receivable management, the 
currencies had appreciated or depreciated by 10% as of the  group is mitigating the default risk by aiming for a higher  04. nonfinancial statement for the group
reporting date. online payment share.
delivery hero group prepared a nonfinancial statement for 
changes the group in accordance with sections 315c and 289b-e of 
f. other disclosures the german commercial code (hgb) which is located in the 
dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
annual report 2017 in section “nonfinancial statement for  97
   
the group” and is published on the website of delivery  
eur million +10% –10% +10% –10%
01.  takeover-related information  hero ag https://ir.deliveryhero.com.
 
 pursuant to sections 289a (1) and 315a (1) 
eur-krw 7.7 –7.7 6.4 –6.4
of the german commercial code (hgb)
eur-try –2.8 2.8 –0.1 0.1
05. treasury shares
eur-gbp 3.2 –3.2 1.5 –1.5
takeover related information pursuant to sections 289a (1) 
eur-usd 0.2 –0.2 –13.0 13.0 and 315a (1) of the german commercial code (hgb)  for information of the treasury shares held as of the report­
uyu-usd –0.1 0.1 –1.4 1.4  presented in section corporate governance report – take­ ing date in accordance with section 161 (2) no. 2 of the 
eur-pln – – 1.2 –1.2 over-related disclosures and explanatory notes by the  german stock corporation act (aktg) we refer to section iii. 
management board of the 2017 annual report are incorpo­ notes to the individual balance sheet items – equity of the 
rated by reference into this combined management report. notes to the 2017 financial statements of delivery hero ag 
in the previous year some of the loans drawn by the group  published on the website of delivery hero ag https://
had floating interest rates. accordingly a 1% higher market  ir.deliveryhero.com.
interest rate would have led to an effect on 2016 profit or  02. c  ompensation report pursuant to 
loss of negative € 0.8 million, a 1% lower market interest   sections 289a (2) and 315a (2) of the 
rate would have no effect on 2016 profit or loss due to   german commercial code (hgb)
interest floor. 
the compensation report pursuant to sections 289a (2) and 
at the reporting date, there were no instruments measured  315a (2) of the german commercial code (hgb) presented 
at fair value. in section corporate governance report – compensation 
report of the 2017 annual report is incorporated by refer­
ence into this combined management report.
combined   g. supplementary management report to the separate financial statements of delivery hero ag  annual report 2017
management report
g. s upplementary management  02. n  et assets, financial positions and  in 2017 other operating income declined by € 84.3 million 
report to the separate financial  result of operations of the company as compared to the previous year. in 2016 the contribution 
statements of delivery hero ag in kind of shares in online pizza norden ab (delivery hero 
a) results of operations sweden) resulted in an income of € 106.6 million. in 2017 
the management report of delivery hero ag and the group  the results of operations of delivery hero ag are shown  other operating income includes € 9.5 million ipo related 
management report have been combined. the annual  below in a condensed income statement: transaction costs that were reimbursed by selling share­
financial statements of delivery hero ag were prepared in  holders, € 12.5 million recharged cost incurred on behalf of 
accordance with the german commercial code (handels­   group subsidiaries as well as € 6.6 million realized and 
eur million 2017 2016 change %
gesetzbuch) (“hgb”). unrealized foreign currency gains. 
 
revenue 35.8 27.3 8.5 31.1
personnel expenses increased by € 74.1 million as compared 
01. business model other operating  to the previous year. the increase resulted mainly from 
income 34.5 118.7 –84.3 –71.0
expenditures  for  share-based  compensation  of 
material expenses –0.2 –1.0 0.8 –75.7
delivery hero ag (the “company”), a german stock corpo­ € 64.0 million in 2017 due to an increased number of awards 
ration (aktiengesellschaft), is the parent company of the  personnel  granted following the acquisition of minorities (roll-over) 
expenses –100.8 –26.7 –74.1 > 100
98 delivery hero group with its registered office at oranien­ preceeding the ipo as well as valuation effects. in addition 
burger straße 70, 10117 berlin, germany. other operating  to this effect, an increase in the number of employees 
expenses –88.9 –41.2 –47.7 > 100
resulted in a € 10.1 million increase in personnel expenses.
delivery hero ag is the holding company of the group’s  depreciation –74.1 –85.0 10.9 –12.8
subsidiaries that operate online food ordering and delivery  net interest and  other operating expenses increased by € 47.7 million to 
amortization 
marketplaces businesses under the brand delivery hero as  € 88.9 million, consisting primarily of expenses for curren­
expenses –3.5 –7.9 4.4 –55.6
well as certain regional brands. its operating activities  cy translation (€ 13.4 million), for consulting services main­
income from 
includes the administration of participation in other com­ ly for preparation ipo, m&a and restructuring/reorganiza­
investments 7.3 3.3 3.9 > 100
panies as well as the provision of general administrative-,  tion activities (€ 43.6 million) as well as office lease and 
earnings before 
marketing- and it related services and financing to these  utilities (€ 5.7 million).
taxes (ebt) –190.0 –12.4 –177.6 > 100
direct and indirect participations.
taxes –0.6 –4.6 4.0 –87.9
delivery hero ag is represented by its management board,  net loss –190.6 –17.0 –173.6 > 100
which determines the corporate strategy of the group. in 
its capacity as a group holding company, delivery hero ag 
maintains group functions including group accounting,  the increase in revenue in 2017 was mainly attributable to 
investor relations, risk management, corporate taxes,  higher services recharges to group subsidiaries.
internal audit, mergers and acquisitions, group controlling, 
treasury and human resources.
combined   g. supplementary management report to the separate financial statements of delivery hero ag  annual report 2017
management report
depreciation, amortization and impairments primarily  b) financial position cash flows from investment activities comprised mainly 
consist of impairments on non-current financial assets, in  the following condensed cash flows statement (indirect  non-current loans to group subsidiaries.
2017 € 74.1 million (previous year: € 85.0 million). the 2017  method) shows the company’s financial position:
impairments relate to investments in 9cookies gmbh,  the positive cash flows from financing activities resulted 
inversiones cmr s.a.s., food delivery holding 15 s.à.r.l.,     mainly from cash receipts from the naspers financing round 
eur million 2017 2016
senningerberg (lu) and in connection with the derecog­ in may 2017 (€ 301.4 million), ipo proceeds net of bank 
nition of 51.0% of the shares in restaurant partner polska    commissions (€ 468.8 million) and the december 2017 
cash and cash equivalents at the 
sp. z.o.o. (€ 14.4 million). in 2016 impairments related to  capital increase (€ 360.1 million). further € 110.7 million 
beginning of the financial year 0.8 70.4
delivery hero germany gmbh, rgp local commons i gmbh  were received from an intercompany loan in connection 
cash flows from  
& co kg, rgp local holding i gmbh, ceraon b.v. and take- with the acquisition of the foodpanda group. these cash 
operating activities –157.5 –33.0
eateasy.be sa.   inflows were off set primarily by the repayment of bank 
cash flows from  
loans (€ 118.5 million) and shareholder loans (€ 273.0 million).
investing activities –209.9 –101.4
the 2017 net loss primarily increased as a result of higher 
cash flows from  
personnel expenses due to higher share-based compensa­ financing activities 770.5 64.8 as of december 31, 2017 the company had unused credit 
tion cost and increased other operating expenses signifi­ lines from third parties amounting to € 75.0 million (pre-
net change in cash  
cantly affected by ipo related costs. and cash equivalents 403.1 –69.6 vious year: € 25.0 million). 99
effect of movements in 
net loss includes expenses for r&d activities in 2017 of  exchange rates on cash  
€ 6.2 million (2016: € 6.7 million). furthermore, develop­ and cash equivalents –0.9 –
ment cost of € 0.6 million were capitalized in 2017 (2016:  cash and cash equivalents  
n.a.). at the end of the financial year 403.0 0.7
in 2018 delivery hero ag expects a significant improvement 
of the net loss driven by higher other operating income in  the negative cash flows from operating activities resulted 
connection with the sale of hungryhouse. mainly from the 2017 net loss (€ 190.6 million) less share-
based compensation (€ 70.1 million) and depreciation, 
amortization and impairments (€ 74.1 million). further the 
increase in working capital, particulary from funds provid­
ed to subsidiaries for m&a activities (€ 84.8 million), 
 affected the cash flows from operating activities  negatively.
combined   g. supplementary management report to the separate financial statements of delivery hero ag  annual report 2017
management report
c) net assets
net assets are illustrated by means of a condensed balance 
sheet:
dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
   
eur million share (%) eur million share (%) change (%)
 
assets
non-current assets 2,034.4 78.5 1,853.2 96.5 9.8
current assets 555.8 21.4 63.7 3.3 > 100
prepaid expenses 2.6 0.1 2.8 0.1 –6.9
total assets 2,592.9 100.0 1,919.7 100.0 35.1
 
liabilities
100
equity 2,511.4 96.9 1,073.1 55.9 > 100
capital contri butions paid (not registered yet) – – 364.3 19.0 > 100
provisions 11.8 0.5 58.4 3.0 –79.8
liabilities 67.1 2.6 421.1 21.9 –84.1
deferred income 1.3 – 0.1 – > 100
deferred tax liabilities 1.3 – 2.7 0.1 –52.1
total equity and liabilities 2,592.9 100.0 1,919.7 100.0 35.1
the total assets of delivery hero ag increased by 35.1% in  non-current assets as of december 31, 2017 primarily consist 
2017. this increase results primarily from inflow of funds  of shares in affiliated companies (€ 1,605.3 million; decem­
from the capital increases used by the company in the  ber 31, 2016: € 1,543.0 million) and loans to affiliated com­
context of its financing activities with its affiliated compa­ panies (€ 410.0 million: december 31, 2016: € 297.0 million).
nies. 
combined   g. supplementary management report to the separate financial statements of delivery hero ag  annual report 2017
management report
current assets as of december 31, 2017 consist primarily of  d) overall assessment
cash and cash equivalents of € 403.0 million; (december 31,  the management assessed the company’s net assets, finan­
2016: € 0.8 million). cial position and results of operations as positive due to 
the substantial improvement of the financial positions and 
equity as of december 31, 2017 increased to € 2,511.4 million  the increased volume of services provided to group sub­
(december 31, 2016: € 1,073.1 million) mainly as a result of  sidiaries. although the company continued to incur signi-
the naspers financing round in may 2017, the ipo in june  ficant losses, these were within the foreseeable range.
2017 and the capital increase from december 2017. contrary 
equity decreased by € 190.6 million from the net loss of the  during the year 2017, we successfully integrated the head­
period. the equity ratio improved to 96.9% (december 31,  quarter functions of the delivery hero ag with central 
2016: 55.9%). functions from the foodpanda group acquired in december 
2016. in 2017 the central functions have been strengthened 
the decline in provisions in 2017 as compared to the previ­ to facilitate technological and administrative integration 
ous year resulted primarily from the reclassification of the  of the subsidiaries and to accommodate the roll out of the 
liability for share-based compensation into equity as result  new business opportunities in the group.
of the restructuring of the former long-term incentive  101
programs into a uniform share option program in connec­ berlin, april 24, 2018
tion with the conversion of the legal status of the company 
into a german stock corporation. the new stock option 
arrangements are classified as equity instruments recog­
nized in equity whereas the former programs were classified 
as cash settled. 
the liabilities as of december 31, 2017 (€ 67.1 million) relate  niklas östberg  emmanuel thomassin
mainly to fixed interest-bearing loan liabilities to delivery   chief executive officer  chief financial officer
hero group companies of € 53.0 million (previous year: 
€ 153.5 million), thereof € 41.0 million denominated in 
usd (previous year: n.a.). the decline in liabilities as com­
pared to the previous year is attributable mainly to repay­
ment of loans with the proceeds from the ipo.
 annual report 2017
consolidated financial statements 
consolidated  
consolidated statement of financial position page 103
consolidated statement of profit or loss and  
other comprehensive income page 104
financial   consolidated statement of changes in equity page 105
consolidated statement of cash flows page 107
statements
notes to the consolidated f inancial statements page 108
a. general information page 108
b. accounting policies page 109
c.  new standards and interpretations that  
have not yet been applied page 116
d. scope of consolidation page 119
e. operating segments page 124
f.  disclosures on the consolidated  statement of  
financial position page 125
102 g.  disclosures on the consolidated statement of  
comprehensive income page 139
h. other disclosures page 143
i.  subsequent events page 159
try out our interactive table of contents.  
you will be directed to the selected page.
consolidated   consolidated statement of    annual report 2017
financial statements financial position
consolidated statement of financial position
assets equity and liabilities
  restated1     restated1  
eur million note dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016 eur million note dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
   
non-current assets equity
intangible assets f. 01. 1,222.6 1,294.0 share capital/subscribed capital 182.5 0.5
property, plant and equipment f. 02. 23.4 15.5 capital reserves 2,661.3 1,582.8
other financial assets f. 03. 31.4 6.7 retained earnings and other reserves –1,124.5 –681.5
other assets f. 05. 0.3 0.1 treasury shares 0.0 0.0
deferred tax assets f. 06. – 4.4 equity attributable to shareholders  
of the parent company 1,719.3 901.8
investments accounted for using the equity method d. 03. 5.9 3.3
non-controlling interests 1.5 –9.6
1,283.6 1,323.9
current assets   f. 09. 1,720.8 892.2 103
non-current liabilities
inventories f. 07. 2.4 0.5
liabilities to banks f. 10. – 116.4
trade and other receivables f. 04. 88.8 50.8
pension provisions f. 11. 1.9 1.2
other assets f. 05. 17.6 11.1
other provisions f. 12. 3.6 11.8
income tax receivables f. 15. 0.4 0.6
trade and other payables f. 13. 2.8 265.0
cash and cash equivalents f. 08. 627.3 228.9
other liabilities f. 14. 15.2 0.2
assets included in a disposal group   a. 02./ 
classified as held for sale d. 03.  28.1 16.3 deferred tax liabilities f. 06. 81.7 108.1
764.6 308.2   105.2 502.6
total assets 2,048.2 1,632.1 current liabilities  
1 refer to section a. 02. other provisions f. 12. 21.2 68.4
trade and other payables f. 13. 135.1 121.4
other liabilities f. 14. 41.9 33.2
income tax liabilities f. 15. 10.1 6.5
liabilities included in a disposal group   a. 02./ 
classified as held for sale d. 03.  13.9 7.9
222.2 237.3
total equity and liabilities 2,048.2 1,632.1
1 refer to section a. 02.
consolidated   consolidated statement of    annual report 2017
financial statements profit or loss and other comprehensive income
consolidated statement of profit or loss  
and other comprehensive income
   
eur million note 2017 2016 eur million note 2017 2016
   
continuing operations other comprehensive income (net)
revenue g. 01. 543.7 289.91 items not reclassified to profit or loss:
cost of sales g. 02. –197.9 –77.21 remeasurement of net liability (asset) arising  
on defined benefit pension plans f. 09. d) –0.3 0.1
gross profit 345.8 212.7
items reclassified to profit or loss in the future:
marketing expenses g. 03. –327.1 –222.6
effect of movements in exchange rates f. 09. d) –98.5 –61.6
it expenses g. 04. –45.1 –31.3
other comprehensive income –98.8 –61.5
general administrative expenses g. 05. –221.5 –100.9
total comprehensive income for the period –446.9 –256.5
other operating income g. 06. 25.3 2.2
104 other operating expenses g. 07. –22.7 –19.9 net loss for the period attributable to:
shareholders of the parent –345.1 –187.4
operating result –245.1 –159.8
non-controlling interests –2.9 –7.5
net interest cost g. 08. –17.9 –33.1
total comprehensive income attributable to:
other financial result g. 09. –73.4 –9.3
shareholders of the parent –443.0 –248.9
earnings before income taxes –336.4 –202.3
non-controlling interests –3.9 –7.6
income taxes g. 10. –1.7 11.0
diluted and basic earnings per share  
net loss for the period from continuing operations –338.1 –191.3
from continuing operations in eur –2.12 –1.56
net loss for the period from discontinued operations –10.0 –3.6
diluted and basic earnings per share  
net loss  –348.1 –194.9 from continued and discontinued operations in eur –2.19 –1.59
1 adjusted (see section e. 02. a)).
consolidated   consolidated statement of    annual report 2017
financial statements changes in equity
consolidated statement of changes in equity
jan. 1, 2017 – dec. 31, 2017
attributable to the owners of the parent
retained earnings and other reserves
revaluation 
currency  reserve   non- 
subscribed  capital  retained   translation  for pension  treasury   controlling  total  
eur million capital  reserves  earnings  reserve  commitments shares total  interests equity
 
note f. 09. a) and b) f. 09. c) f. 09. d) f. 09. d) f. 09. d) f. 09. e)   f. 09. f)  
balance as of jan. 1, 2017 0.5 1,582.8 –587.6 –93.7 –0.2 0.0 901.8 –9.6 892.2
net loss – – –345.1 – – – –345.1 –2.9 –348.1
other comprehensive income – – – –97.6 –0.3 – –97.8 –1.0 –98.8
total comprehensive income – – –345.1 –97.6 –0.3 – –443.0 –3.9 –446.9
105
transactions with owners – payments received  
and change in non-controlling interests
capital increases 182.0 948.0 – – – – 1,130.0 – 1,130.0
equity-settled share-based payments – 113.7 – – – – 113.7 – 113.7
acquisition of non-controlling interests  
without change of control – 16.7 – – – – 16.7 15.1 31.8
transactions with owners 182.0 1,078.4 – – – – 1,260.5 15.1 1,275.6
balance as of dec. 31, 2017 182.5 2,661.3 –932.7 –191.3 –0.5 0.0 1,719.3 1.5 1,720.9
consolidated   consolidated statement of    annual report 2017
financial statements changes in equity
jan. 1, 2016 – dec. 31, 2016
attributable to the owners of the parent
retained earnings and other reserves
revaluation 
currency  reserve   non-  
subscribed  capital    retained   translation  for pension  treasury   controlling  total  
eur million  capital reserves  earnings  reserve  commitments shares total interests equity
 
note f. 09. a) and b) f. 09. c) f. 09. d) f. 09. d) f. 09. d) f. 09. e)   f. 09. f)
balance as of jan. 1, 2016 0.4 1,204.2 –400.1 –32.2 –0.2 0.0 772.0 –6.5 765.5
net loss – – –187.4 – – – –187.4 –7.5 –194.9
other comprehensive income – – – –61.5 0.1 – –61.4 –0.2 –61.6
total comprehensive income – – –187.4 –61.5 0.1 – –248.9 –7.6 –256.5
106
transactions with owners – payments received  
and change in non-controlling interests
capital increases 0.1 383.5 – – – – 383.6 – 383.6
equity-settled share-based payments – 0.9 – – – – 0.9 – 0.9
acquisition of non-controlling interests  
without change of control – –1.5 – – – – –1.5 –0.1 –1.6
acquisition of a subsidiary  
with non-controlling interests – – – – – – – 4.2 4.2
other transactions with non-controlling interests  
without change of control – –6.5 – – – – –6.5 3.0 –3.4
disposal of non-controlling interests  
without change of control – 2.2 – – – – 2.2 –2.6 –0.4
transactions with owners 0.1 378.7 – – – – 378.7 4.5 383.2
balance as of dec. 31, 2016 0.5 1,582.8 –587.6 –93.7 –0.2 0.0 901.8 –9.6 892.2
consolidated   consolidated statement of    annual report 2017
financial statements cash flows
consolidated statement of cash flows
   
eur million note 2017 2016 eur million note 2017 2016
   
1. cash flows from operating activities 2. cash flows from investing activities
net loss –348.1 –194.9 proceeds (+) from the disposal of property,  
plant and equipment 1.4 0.5
income tax (net) 2.1 –10.8
payments (–) for investments in property,  
income tax paid (–) –7.9 –5.7
plant and equipment f. 02. –16.6 –9.3
amortization, depreciation and write-downs f. 01./f. 02. 54.7 53.3
proceeds (+) from disposal of intangible assets   0.1 0.7
write downs of financial assets (+)   – 7.1
payments (–) to acquire intangible assets f. 01. –6.5 –9.2
increase (+)/decrease (–) in provisions f. 12. 4.4 –3.2
proceeds (+)/payments (–)  
non-cash expenses (+)/  for investments in financial assets   2.0 –3.0
income (–) from share-based payments g. 05. 71.0 15.8
net payments for (–)/proceeds (+)   107
other non-cash expenses (+) and income (–)   –24.1 –14.7 from loans to third parties   –0.8 0.7
gain (–)/loss (+) on disposals of fixed assets   0.6 0.5 net payments (-) proceeds (+) from acquisition/ 
sale of subsidiaries or discontinued operations d. 02. –99.0 130.8
gain (–)/loss (+) on deconsolidation d. 03. d) –20.0 1.2
interest received (+) 2.0 0.8
increase (–)/decrease (+) in inventories,  
trade receivables and other assets   –51.8 –15.8 cash flows from investing activities –117.5 111.8
increase (+)/decrease (–) in trade and other payables   41.9 33.2  
3. cash flows from financing activities
interest and similar income (–)/  g. 08./ 
interest and similar expense (+) g. 09. 66.5 38.0 proceeds (+) from capital contributions f. 09. 1,128.4 0.4
cash flows from operating activities –210.6 –96.0 proceeds (+) from loans and borrowings f. 13. 25.0 179.7
repayments (–) of loans and borrowings f. 13. –393.4 –112.6
interest paid (–) –11.2 –9.1
cash flows from financing activities 748.8 58.4
 
4. cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period
net change in cash and cash equivalents 420.6 74.3
effect of exchange rate movements  
on cash and cash equivalents –10.5 –3.6
cash and cash equivalents at the  
beginning of the period 1 f. 08. 230.9 160.2
cash and cash equivalents at the end of period 1 640.9 230.9
1  cash included in a disposal group classified as held for sale december 31, 2017: € 13.6 million  
(december 31, 2016: € 2.0 million).
notes to the consolidated  a. general information  annual report 2017
 financial statements
notes to the consolidated  on december 5, 2017, the management board resolved a  consolidated statement of financial position
 financial statements capital increase against cash contributions with the 
impact of correction of error
 approval of the supervisory board, excluding shareholders 
as  
subscription rights. a total of 10,500,000 new registered  dec. 31, 2016  previously adjust­ as  
a. general information shares were issued as part of this capital increase. eur million reported ments restated
 
01. company information comparison of the consolidated statement of profit or loss  total assets 1,632.1 – 1,632.1
the delivery hero group (also: dh, dh group, delivery hero  and other comprehensive income of 2017 with the consol­ intangibles assets 1,305.0 –11.0 1,294.0
or group) offers online food ordering services in more than  idated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive 
inventories 0.6 –0.1 0.5
40 countries on six continents. the group operates online  income of the prior year is limited due to the acquisition of 
trade and other receivables 
food ordering and online food delivery services in various  the shares in emerging markets online food d  elivery hold­ (current) 53.3 –2.5 50.8
countries in europe, south america, north america, asia,  ing s.á.r.l. (foodpanda group) as of december 31, 2016.
other assets (current) 11.3 –0.2 11.1
australia and africa. 
cash and cash equivalents 230.9 –2.0 228.8
the consolidated financial statements and the combined 
assets included in a  
delivery hero ag is the parent company and domiciled at  management report were authorized for issue by the 
disposal group classified  
108 oranienburger straße 70, 10117 berlin, germany. it is regis­  management board on april 24, 2018. as held for sale 0.5 15.8 16.3
tered with the commercial register of the local court,  berlin 
others 30.6 – 30.6
charlottenburg under hrb 187081 b. 02. corrections following ias 8
total liabilities 739.9 – 739.9
on december 15, 2016 the company announced its intent 
the change in legal form from delivery hero gmbh to a  to sell its hungryhouse group. consequentially, the assets  trade and other payables 
(current) 127.8 –6.4 121.4
stock corporation (aktiengesellschaft) delivery hero ag  of the hungryhouse group are recognized as assets  included 
other liabilities (current) 34.3 –1.1 33.2
became effective with registration in the commercial reg­ in a disposal group classified as held for sale and the liabil­
ister on may 29, 2017. ities of the hungryhouse group are classified as liabilities  income tax liabilities  6.7 –0.3 6.5
included in a disposal group classified as held for sale as of  liabilities included in a  
by way of cash capital increase, the naspers group acquired  december 31, 2017 and 2016 (refer to section d. 03. e)). disposal group classified  
as held for sale 0.1 7.8 7.9
42,967 newly issued shares in delivery hero ag (then 
delivery hero gmbh) in may 2017 (this corresponds to  during 2017, the dh group discovered that the assets and  others 571.1 – 571.1
12,890,100 shares after the capital increase from company   liabilities of the hungryhouse group had not been compre­ total equity 892.2 – 892.2
funds). hensively reclassified into assets included in a disposal 
group classified as held for sale and liabilities included in 
the capital increase from company funds was entered in  a disposal group classified as held for sale as of decem­ notwithstanding the above 2016 revenue and cost of sales 
the commercial register on june 12, 2017, in the course of  ber 31, 2016. accordingly, assets included in a disposal group  in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other 
which the share capital of delivery hero ag increased by a  classified as held for sale as well as liabilities  included in a  comprehensive income were adjusted by € 7.1 million 
multiple of 300, from € 0.5 million to € 153.0 million. disposal group classified as held for sale were understated  respectively. the adjustment is further explained in section 
as of that date. correspondingly, other asset- and  l iability-line  e. 02. a).
as part of the ipo of delivery hero ag, a total of 18,950,000  items in the statement of financial position as of decem­
new registered shares were issued. the shares in delivery hero  ber 31, 2016 were overstated. the following reconciliation 
ag were admitted for trading in the prime standard segment  summarises the impact on the group’s statement of finan­
of the frankfurt stock exchange from june 30, 2017. cial position.
notes to the consolidated  a. general information   annual report 2017
 financial statements b. accounting policies
03.  basis of preparation of the consolidated  b. accounting policies when the group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecog­
 financial statements in accordance with ifrs nizes the assets and liabilities of the subsidiary and all 
the consolidated financial statements of the dh group have  the financial statements of the company and of the sub­  related non-controlling interests and other equity com-
been prepared in accordance with the international finan­ sidiaries are prepared according to uniform accounting pol­ ponents. any gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. any 
cial reporting standards (ifrs) adopted and issued by the  icies. the group consistently applied the following account­ retained interest in the former subsidiary is recognized at 
international accounting standards board (iasb), as  adopted  ing policies to all periods presented in these consolidated  fair value on the date when control was lost.
by the european union. the preparation of the  consolidated  financial statements.
financial statements occurred under application of the pro­ expenses and income, as well as receivables and payables 
visions of regulation (ec) no 1606/2002 of the european  01. methods of consolidation between consolidated entities, are eliminated along with 
parliament and of the council of july 19, 2002, on the appli­ intragroup profits and losses arising from intragroup trans­
cation of international accounting standards in conjunction  a) subsidiaries actions.
with section 315a (3) of the german commercial code (hgb)  subsidiaries are entities directly or indirectly controlled by 
taking into consideration the supplementary provisions of  the company. the company controls an entity when it is  the list of shareholdings in section h. 10. contains a detailed 
german commercial law. exposed to variable returns from its involvement with the  overview of all the subsidiaries.
entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its 
the consolidated financial statements are prepared in euro.  control over the entity. subsidiaries are fully consolidated  b) associates  109
unless otherwise stated, all figures have been rounded to  in the consolidated financial statements of the group. first- associates are entities in which the group has a significant 
the nearest € million. disclosures on changes are based on  time consolidation occurs at the date of obtaining control.  influence; which is presumed in case of a holding of 
exact values. in addition, for computational reasons, there  between 20% and 50% of voting rights. as of the r eporting 
may be rounding differences to the exact mathematical  the group accounts for business combinations applying  date and in the prior year the group had three associates. 
 values in tables and references. the acquisition method. in applying the acquisition  method,  they are listed in the list of shareholdings in section h. 10.
the consideration transferred and the identifiable net assets 
the consolidated financial statements and group manage­ are measured at fair value. a positive difference between  as in the prior years, the group did not have any joint 
ment report are published in the german federal gazette  the consideration transferred and the identifiable net asset  arrangements according to ifrs 11 as of the reporting date.
(bundesanzeiger). is capitalized as goodwill. a negative difference is immedi­
ately recognized in profit or loss. 02. currency translation
the preparation of consolidated financial statements in  the functional currency of the subsidiaries included in the 
accordance with ifrs requires judgements, estimates and  non-controlling interests constitute the share of profit or  consolidated financial statements of the group is usually 
assumptions that affect the application of accounting pol­ loss and net assets in a subsidiary that is not attributed to  the respective local currency, unless the functional c urrency 
icies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,  the parent’s shareholders and are presented separately.  of a subsidiary is assessed to be different than the local 
income and expense. actual results may differ from these  changes in the group’s interest in a subsidiary that do not   currency due to specific circumstances. the consolidated 
estimates. areas involving a higher degree of judgment or  result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity trans­ financial statements are presented in euro (presentation 
areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to  actions.  currency).
the consolidated financial statements are disclosed in 
 section b. 15. obligations arising from written put options issued to 
 holders of non-controlling interests are accounted for as 
financial liabilities and the related non-controlling interests 
are no longer recognized.
notes to the consolidated  b. accounting policies  annual report 2017
 financial statements
transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the  the dh group generates revenue from provision of online  mization of restaurant menus, offline advertising services, 
functional currency at the exchange rate on the trans action  food ordering services via internet platforms. the group  live tracking and other additional goods and services e.g. 
date. monetary assets and liabilities denominated in for­ collects commission from restaurants for order forwarding  marketing material, flyers or food packaging. the revenue 
eign currencies are translated into the functional currency  via the internet platforms. in generating commission  recognition with respect to such arrangements is recognized 
at the exchange rate at each reporting date. foreign  income, the dh group acts as an agent as the dh group is  either over the period in which the service is rendered or at 
exchange gains and losses are generally recognized in  profit  solely an intermediary between the main supplier and the  a point in time depending on the transfer of risks and 
or loss. the foreign currency differences arising from the  end consumer. the corresponding revenue is recognized  rewards as agreed in individual contracts with customers. 
translation of available-for-sale equity investments are rec­ as soon as the customer’s online order is completed. com­
ognized in oci until the investment is impaired or derecog­ missions are recognized at the consideration receivable  to a minor extent some dh group companies set up  loyalty 
nized. exchange differences arising on a monetary item  from the restaurant less value added tax. programs which include award credits that are recognized 
that forms part of a reporting entity’s net investment in a  as separately identifiable components of sales transactions. 
foreign operation are recognized in oci in the  consolidated  to the extent that the end customers elects online payment  in such cases, the fair value of the consideration received 
financial statements. options, fees from payment providers arise. the fees from  in the course of the original sale is allocated to award 
payment providers are recharged to the restaurant. the   credits and other components of the transaction. the 
for the purposes of inclusion in the consolidated financial  resulting revenue is recognized correspondingly with the   relative fair value method is used to determine values. the 
110 statements, the assets and liabilities (including goodwill  underlying placement of orders. award credit portion of the consideration is recognized as 
and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition) of sub­ revenue when the award credits are redeemed.
sidiaries whose functional currency is not euro are trans­ in some arrangements, delivery hero offers delivery ser­
lated into euro at the exchange rates at the reporting date.  vices as well. the dh group carries out the delivery with  04. property, plant and equipment
income and expenses are translated into euro at the dates  its own personnel and freelancers, for which it collects a  items of property, plant and equipment are measured at 
of the transactions, approximated by average exchange  delivery fee in addition to the commission. the dh group  cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. 
rates. acts as principal regarding the delivery fee. the delivery 
fees are recognized at the consideration receivable from  depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the 
when a foreign operation is disposed of, the cumulative  the customer less value added tax. time period of the expected useful life of the asset.
amount of foreign exchange reserve related to that foreign 
operation is reclassified to profit or loss as part of the gain  furthermore, dh provides contractual partners with order  in the reporting year, depreciation was based on the fol­
or loss on disposal. confirmation terminals to confirm order acceptance  directly  lowing useful lives:
to the customer via the delivery hero online platform. if a 
03. recognition of revenue terminal is sold, revenue is recognized as soon as the risks  useful life in years
revenue is recognized when the significant risks and  and rewards arising from the goods are transferred to cus­
 
rewards of ownership have been transferred to the c ustomer,  tomers, namely upon delivery. leases of terminals to con­ 2017 2016
recovery of the consideration is probable, the  associated  tractual partners are classified as operating leases. associ­  
costs and possible return of goods can be estimated  reliably,  ated incoming payments are recognized on a straight-line  operating and office equipment 2 – 15 2 – 15
there is no continuing management involvement with the  basis according to the lease term. leasehold improvements 3 – 17 3 – 17
goods and the amount of revenue can be measured  reliably.
in addition to the online food ordering services, the dh 
group offers such additional services as website design ser­
vices, premium placement services, newsletter services, opti­
notes to the consolidated  b. accounting policies  annual report 2017
 financial statements
if there is objective evidence that items of property, plant  useful life in years the fair value less costs of disposal of the cgu is  calculated 
and equipment are impaired, the recoverable amount is  by applying the discounted cash flow method, as follows. 
 
determined. if the carrying amount exceeds the recover­ 2017 2016 the expected future cash flows are determined based on a 
able amount impairment losses are recognized directly in    detailed budget for the first three years. the expected 
the statement of profit or loss. if the requirements for  software 2 – 3 2 – 3 future cash flows in subsequent years are estimated based 
impairment are no longer in place in subsequent years, pre­ trademarks 5 – 25 5 – 25 on cgu-specific revenue growth and ebitda margin 
vious impairment losses are reversed. assumptions.
customer and  
supplier  relationships 3 – 10 3 – 10
repair and maintenance expenses are expensed at the time  impairment losses are recognized in profit or loss. they are 
of their occurrence. material innovations and improvements  allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any good­
are capitalized. the expected useful life of a trademark is forecast in accor­ will allocated to the cgu, and then to reduce the carrying 
dance with verifiable history and observable user behavior.  amounts of other assets in the cgu on a pro-rata basis.
05. intangible assets including goodwill the underlying useful life of customer and supplier rela­
intangible assets acquired separately are recognized at  tionships is determined individually corresponding to his­ an impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. 
directly attributable costs. intangible assets acquired in a  torical migration rates of restaurants within a year.  for other assets, an impairment loss is reversed only to the 
business combination except for goodwill are initially mea­ extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed  111
sured at their fair value and subsequently at cost. the amor­ impairment of intangible assets the carrying amount that would have been determined, net 
tization is calculated on a straight-line basis over the indi­ intangible assets are tested for impairment as part of a cash  of amortization, if no impairment loss had been recognized.
vidual useful lives. goodwill is measured at cost less  generating unit (cgu) which is defined as the smallest group 
accumulated impairment losses. of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use  06. leases
that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other 
internal development expenditure is capitalized if develop­ assets or cgus. goodwill arising from a business combina­ a) accounting as lessee
ment costs can be reliably measured, the product or pro­ tion is allocated to cgus or groups of cgus depending on  if lease arrangements do not meet the criteria for finance 
cess is technically and commercially feasible, future bene­ the level at which it is monitored by management. leases they are classified as operating leases. lease pay­
fit is probable and the group intends and has sufficient  ments are recognized as expenses on a straight-line basis 
resources to be able to complete development and to use  a cgu or a group of cgus is tested for impairment if impair­ over the lease term.
or sell the asset. other expenditures are recognized in  profit  ment indicators are present. in addition, cgus and groups 
or loss as soon as they are incurred. capitalized develop­ of cgus to which goodwill is allocated are subject to an  b) accounting as lessor
ment expenditure is measured at cost less accumulated  annual impairment test. some subsidiaries in the group act as lessors of order con­
amortization and impairment losses.  firmation terminals, which restaurants put into place to 
an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of  directly confirm order acceptance to the customer via the 
amortization is based on the following useful lives: a cgu exceeds its recoverable amount. the recoverable  delivery hero online platform. as significant risks and 
amount corresponds to the larger of fair value less costs of  rewards of ownership are retained by the group, these 
disposal and value in use of the cgu or a group of cgus. agreements are classified as operating leases pursuant to 
ias 17.
notes to the consolidated  b. accounting policies  annual report 2017
 financial statements
accordingly, the group depreciates terminals on a straight- b) deferred income taxes deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset if 
line basis over the expected useful life and recognizes lease  deferred taxes are recognized on temporary differences  the group has a legally enforceable right to set off current 
payments in a similar way over the term of the lease agree­ between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in  tax assets against current tax liabilities, and deferred tax 
ment. the consolidated financial statements and the correspond­ assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the 
ing tax bases used in the computation of taxable income.  same taxation authority and concern the same taxable  entity. 
07. inventories furthermore, deferred tax assets are recognized for tax loss 
inventories of the group consist mainly of branded and  carryforwards. 09. financial instruments
unbranded packages and bags that are provided to restau­
rants. deferred tax liabilities are recognized for all taxable tem­ a) financial assets
porary differences.  financial assets of the dh group comprise loans and receiv­
inventories are carried at cost, which is determined on the  ables, available-for-sale financial assets, financial assets 
basis of direct production costs and production-related  deferred tax assets are recognized for temporary diffe- through profit or loss and cash and cash equivalents. 
overheads. inventories are carried at the lower of cost and  rences and tax loss carryforwards to the extent to which it 
net realizable value as of each reporting date.  is probable that sufficient future taxable income will be  loans and receivables
available against which deductible temporary differences  loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets 
112 cost includes all costs of purchase, production and other  and/or loss carryforwards can be utilized. with fixed or determinable payments that are not traded in 
costs that are incurred in bringing the inventories to their  an active market. they are included in current assets as long 
present location and condition. the first-in, first-out  method  deferred taxes are measured in accordance with ias 12.  as their maturities do not extend beyond twelve months 
(fifo) is used to measure cost. net realizable value is the  they are measured at the tax rates that are expected to  after the reporting date. otherwise they are classified as 
estimated selling price less estimated costs of completion  apply to the period when the asset is realized or the  liability  non-current assets.
and estimated costs necessary to make the sale. is settled.
loans and receivables are initially recognized on the date 
08. income taxes the change in deferred taxes is recognized in the statement  when they are originated at their fair value plus any  directly 
taxes on income for the period are the sum of current and  of profit or loss provided it relates to items in the consoli­ attributable transaction costs. they are subsequently mea­
deferred income taxes. dated statement of financial position that were recognized  sured at amortized cost using the effective interest m  ethod.
in the statement of profit or loss. if the items in the consol­
a) current income taxes idated statement of financial position directly relate to  impairment of loans and receivables is recognized if there 
the current income tax expense is calculated by applying   equity or other comprehensive income (oci), the corre­ is evidence of financial difficulties of borrowers and the car­
the tax regulations enacted as of the reporting date in the  sponding deferred taxes are also recognized in these items.  rying amount of the financial asset exceeds the present 
countries in which the dh group operates. in assessing   value of estimated future cash flows discounted using the 
income tax positions, estimates are required. the assess­ deferred tax assets and liabilities arising through tempo­ original effective interest rate. the impairment on trade 
ment by the respective tax authorities may deviate. this  rary differences related to investments in subsidiaries, asso­ receivables is recognized using a provision matrix. impair­
uncertainty is reflected by recognizing uncertain tax posi­ ciates or joint arrangements are taken into account unless  ment losses are recognized in profit or loss and are  reflected 
tions only if dh assesses the probability of occurrence  the date for reversal of temporary differences can not be  in an allowance account. when the group considers that 
 greater than 50%. determined at group level or/and it is probable that the  there are no realistic prospects of recovery of the financial 
temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable  asset, the financial asset is written off. if the impairment 
future.  loss subsequently decreases, the previously recognized 
impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.
notes to the consolidated  b. accounting policies  annual report 2017
 financial statements
available-for-sale financial assets b) financial liabilities the group derecognizes a financial liability when its con­
the available-for-sale financial assets of the group are rep­ financial liabilities are classified as those measured at fair  tractual obligations are discharged or cancelled, or expire.
resented by unquoted equity investments. equity invest­ value through profit or loss or those measured at amortized 
ments are initially recognized on the trade date at their fair  cost. financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost  in addition, if the contractual terms of a financial instru­
value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. they  unless they are required to be measured at fair value  ment are amended, the financial instrument is derecog­
are subsequently measured at fair value through oci, unless  through profit or loss.  nized if the amended terms are materially different from 
their fair value cannot be determined reliably, in which case  the original terms. in that case, the new financial  instrument 
they are measured at cost. if there is evidence that avail­ financial liabilities of the group which are measured at fair  is recognized at fair value taking into account the  amended 
able-for-sale financial assets are impaired, the impairment  value through profit or loss comprise separated embedded  terms. 
loss is recognized in profit or loss, measured as the differ­ derivatives and contingent considerations recognized by 
ence between the acquisition cost and the current fair  the group as an acquirer in a business combination. all  financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the 
 value. the impairment loss on an equity investment is not   other financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost,  net amount is presented in the statement of financial posi­
subsequently reversed through profit or loss. using the effective interest method. tion when, and only when, the group has a legally enforce­
able right to offset the amounts and intends either to s ettle 
financial assets through profit or loss financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value, in  them on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the 
the financial assets through profit or loss comprise sepa­ case of financial liabilities measured at amortized cost, plus  liability simultaneously. 113
rated embedded derivatives. such instruments are mea­ transaction costs. 
sured at fair value through profit or loss. if the group has the right to settle financial instruments in 
c) other requirements a fixed number of own shares, such financial instruments 
cash and cash equivalents regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are  are classified as equity.
cash and cash equivalents comprise all cash-related assets   recognized at the price on the trade date.
that have a remaining term of less than three months at the  10. employee benefits
date of acquisition or investment. this includes mainly cash  interest income and expenses arising on financial instru­
at banks and cash on hand. cash and cash equivalents are  ments are recognized in profit or loss according to the effec­ a) current employee benefits
measured at nominal value. tive interest method. current employee benefits are expensed in the period the 
service is rendered. a liability is recognized for the amount 
the group derecognizes the financial assets when the con­ expected to be paid if the dh group has a present legal or 
tractual rights to the cash flows from the assets expire, or  constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of 
it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows  past service provided by the employee and the obligation 
in a transaction in which substantially all of the risks and  can be reliably estimated.
rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. 
notes to the consolidated  b. accounting policies  annual report 2017
 financial statements
b) pension obligations the grant-date fair value of equity-settled share-based pay­ 12. determination of fair value
pension and similar obligations arise from the commitments  ment arrangements granted to employees is recognized as  fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset 
of one group entity to its employees. the obligations of  an expense, with a corresponding increase in the capital  or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction 
these defined benefit plans are measured using the  reserves in equity, over the vesting period of the awards.  between market participants at the measurement date in 
 projected unit credit method. under this method,  expected  the amount recognized as an expense is adjusted to reflect  the primary market or, if this is not available, the most 
future increases in salaries and pensions are taken into  forfeited awards. advantageous market. 
account in addition to the pensions and acquired pension 
entitlements known at the reporting date. the fair value of the cash-settled arrangements is recog­ the fair value hierarchy defines three levels of fair value 
nized as an expense with a corresponding increase in lia­ measurements depending on the input factors used in 
pension obligations are determined by independent actu­ bilities over the period during which the employees become  determining the fair value:
aries. effects arising from the remeasurement of actuarial  unconditionally entitled to payment. the liability is remea­
gains and losses, the return on plan assets (excluding inter­ sured at each reporting date and at settlement date based  —   level 1: fair value is based on quoted prices  
est) and the impact of any asset ceiling (excluding interest)  on the fair value of the awards. any changes in the liability  (unadjusted) in an active market for identical  
are recognized in oci. the discount rate stated reflects the  are recognized in profit or loss. assets or liabilities.
interest rate generated by s enior fixed-interest bonds with  —   level 2: fair value is estimated using a valuation 
114 matching maturities on the reporting date. if a share-based program is reclassified from cash-settled   technique which uses inputs that can be observed 
into equity-settled, the amount of the liability reflecting  either directly (that is, as prices) or indirectly  
the fair value of any plan assets is deducted from the dis­ the fair value of the granted awards at the reclassification  (that is, derived from prices).
counted pension obligation. date to the extent the services were received is reclassified  —   level 3: fair value is estimated using a valuation 
into capital reserves.  technique that is using inputs that are not observable.
the interest rate effect included in pension expenses is rec­  
ognized in profit or loss under interest expenses. service  11. other provisions where various input factors are relevant for measurement, 
cost is shown in individual functional areas in operating  other provisions are set up if a legal or constructive obli­ the fair value is categorized at the lowest level input that 
profit /loss. gation to the group resulting from a past event exists, its  is significant to the entire measurement. valuation tech­
fulfillment is probable and its amount can be reliably deter­ niques used to measure fair value maximize the use of rel­
c) share-based payments mined. recognition is made in the amount of the expected  evant observable inputs and minimize the use of unobserv­
the dh group operates several share-based compensation  settlement amount.  able inputs.
programs. the group classifies its share-based compensa­
tion programs as either cash-settled or equity settled  due to estimation uncertainties the amount, i.e. the a ctual 
depending on the terms and conditions of the individual  outflow of resources may deviate from the original amounts 
program and the group’s intention to settle the awards  recognized on the basis of estimates.
with cash or its own equity instruments.
non-current provisions are recognized at the discounted 
settlement amount as of the reporting date based on cor­
responding term and risk adequate interest rates.
notes to the consolidated  b. accounting policies  annual report 2017
 financial statements
13. a  ssets held for sale and liabilities   line in the consolidated statement of financial position. the  b) assumptions and estimation uncertainty
associated with assets held for sale   cash flows of discontinued operations attributable to  recognition and measurement of other provisions
and  discontinued  operations  operating, investing and financing activities are reported  recognition and measurement of other provisions are sub­
non-current assets and the assets of a disposal group clas­ separately in the notes, with prior year figures adjusted  ject to uncertainties in respect of future price increases as 
sified as held for sale as well as any corresponding liabili­ accordingly. well as in respect of the extent, date and probability of uti­
ties of a disposal group classified as held for sale are rec­ lization of the respective provision (refer to section f. 12.).
ognized separately from other assets and other liabilities  14. judgment and use of estimates
in the consolidated statement of financial position in the  in the application of accounting policies and the prepara­ scope for recognizing deferred tax assets
line items “assets included in a disposal group classified as  tion of the consolidated financial statements, management  an excess of deferred tax assets is only recognized if it is 
held for sale” and “liabilities included in a disposal group  makes decisions based on judgment and estimates. this  probable that future tax benefits can be realized based on 
classified as held for sale” if they can be disposed of in their  applies particularly to the following cases: tax budgets. the current taxable profit situation in future 
current condition and if there is sufficient probability of  reporting years and thus the actual usability of deferred 
their disposal actually taking place. a) judgments tax assets, can vary from the estimate made at the date of 
revenue recognition of commission income: recognizing deferred taxation. deferred tax assets on tax 
discontinued operations are components of an entity that  the dh group classifies its provision of online food order­ loss carryforwards or temporary differences are recognized 
are either held for sale or have already been sold and can  ing services via internet platforms as agent activity, as dh  based on future taxable income (refer to section f. 06.).  115
be clearly distinguished from other corporate operations,  entities do not act as the main supplier, are not exposed to 
both operationally and for financial reporting purposes.  storage risk, cannot influence the pricing of counterparties  goodwill allocation and impairment testing
additionally, the component classified as a discontinued  and receive commission as remuneration. determining an appropriate method of allocating goodwill 
operation must represent a major business line or a s pecific  to cgus for impairment testing requires assessment of 
geographic business segment of the group. non-current  classification of share-based payments as equity settled  specific facts and circumstances which may involve signifi­
assets that are held for sale either individually or  collectively  the dh group classifies its share-based payments awards  cant judgments.
as part of a disposal group, or that belong to a discontin­ which enable the group to settle in equity shares or in cash 
ued operation, are no longer depreciated. they are instead  as equity-settled awards. the group assesses that it intends  determination of the recoverable amount requires assump­
accounted for at the lower of the carrying amount and the  and has an ability to settle by means of equity instruments  tions and estimates, in particular on the future develop­
fair value less any remaining costs of disposal. if this value  and therefore does not have a present obligation to settle  ment of ebitda and sustainable growth rates. while man­
is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is rec­ in cash (refer to section h. 01.). agement assumes that the assumptions and estimates used 
ognized. the gains and losses resulting from the measure­ are appropriate, any unforeseeable changes to these 
ment of components held for sale as well as the gains and  lease classification assumptions could affect the group’s financial position, 
losses arising from the disposal of discontinued operations,  judgments are required when classifying leasing arrange­ financial performance and cash flows.
are reported separately on the face of the consolidated  ments as finance or operating leases.
statement of comprehensive income under net profit or 
loss for the period from discontinued operations, net, as is 
the income from the ordinary operating activities of these 
divisions. the consolidated statement of comprehensive 
income for the previous year is adjusted accordingly. the 
relevant assets and liabilities are reported on a separate 
notes to the consolidated  b. accounting policies   annual report 2017
 financial statements c. new standards and interpretations that have not yet been applied
further information on the assumptions and estimates  to be  to be 
applied  applied 
made are listed in the respective disclosure. all assump­
standard from effects standard from effects
tions and estimates are based on the conditions prevailing 
ifrs 15 revenue from contracts  january 1,  refer to analysis  amendment to ias 19:   january 1,  no significant effect 
and assessments at the reporting date (refer to section 
with customers 2018 below plan amendment,   2019  expected
f. 01. b)). curtailment or settlement (iasb) 1
ifrs 9 financial instruments january 1,  refer to analysis 
2018 below amendments to references   january 1,  no significant effect 
measurement of fair values to the conceptual framework   2020  expected
ifrs 16 leases january 1,  refer to analysis 
a number of the group’s accounting policies require the  in ifrs standards (iasb) 1
2019 below
measurement of fair values for both financial and non- 
amendments to ifrs 10 and  – no significant effect  1not yet endorsed by the european union. 
financial assets and liabilities. significant measurement 
ias 28: sale or contribution of  expected
uncertainties are specifically relevant for measurement of  assets between an investor and 
assets and liabilities in business combinations (refer to  its associates or joint ventures ifrs 9 financial instruments
 section d. 02.), disposal group held for sale (refer to sec­ annual improvements to the  january 1,  no significant effect  in july 2014, the iasb issued the final version of ifrs 9 finan­
tion d. 03. e)), share-based payments (refer to section h. 01.)  ifrs cycle 2014 – 2016: amend­ 2018 (iasb) expected cial instruments. ifrs 9 is effective for annual periods begin­
ments to ifrs 1 and ias 28
and financial instruments (refer to section h. 02.).  ning on or after january 1, 2018, with early adoption per­
amendments to ifrs 2:  january 1,  no significant effect 
116 mitted. the group currently plans to apply ifrs 9 initially 
 classification and measurement  2018 (iasb) expected
significant valuation estimates are reported to the group’s  on january 1, 2018. the new standard will require the group 
of share-based payment 
audit committee.  transactions to revise its accounting processes and internal controls 
amendments to ifrs 4:  january 1,  no significant effect  related to reporting financial instruments, and these c hanges 
further information on the assumptions and estimates   applying ifrs 9 “financial  2018 (iasb) expected are being currently implemented. however, the group has 
made are listed in the individual disclosures. all assump­ instruments” with ifrs 4  performed a preliminary assessment of the potential impact 
 “insurance contracts”
tions and estimates are based on the conditions prevailing  of the adoption of ifrs 9 based on its existing financial 
and assessments at the reporting date. ifric 22: foreign currency  january 1,  no significant effect  instruments and reached the following conclusions.
transactions and advance  2018 (iasb) expected
 consideration
classification
amendments to ias 40: trans­ january 1,  no significant effect 
c.  new standards and interpretations  ifrs 9 contains a new classification and measurement 
fers of investment property 2018 (iasb) expected
that have not yet been applied approach for financial assets that reflects the business 
amendments to ifrs 9:  january 1,  no significant effect 
 prepayment features with  2019 expected  model in which assets are managed and their cash flows 
a number of new standards and amendments to standards   negative compensation characteristics. ifrs 9 contains three principal classification 
are effective for annual periods beginning on or after jan­ ifrs 17: insurance contracts january 1,  no significant effect  categories for financial assets: measured at amortized cost, 
uary 1, 2018 and earlier application is permitted; however,  2021  expected fair value through other comprehensive income (fvoci) 
(iasb) 1
the group has not adopted any of the new or amended  and fair value through profit or loss (fvtpl). the standard 
standards early in preparing these consolidated financial  amendments to ias 28:  january 1,  no significant effect  eliminates the existing ias 39 categories of held-to-matu­
 long-term interests in asso- 2019  expected
statements. rity, loans and receivables, and available-for-sale. under 
ciates and joint ventures (iasb) 1
ifrs 9, derivatives embedded in contracts where the host 
ifric 23: uncertainty over  january 1,  no significant effect 
is a financial asset in the scope of the standard are never 
income tax treatments 2019  expected
(iasb) 1 bifurcated. instead, the hybrid financial instrument as a 
whole is assessed for classification. 
annual improvements to ifrs cycle  january 1,  no significant effect 
2015 – 2017: amendments to   2019  expected
ifrs 3, ifrs 11, ias 12 and ias 23 (iasb) 1
notes to the consolidated  c. new standards and interpretations that have not yet been applied  annual report 2017
 financial statements
if the new classification requirements had been applied to  ecls: these are ecls that result from possible default events  cation and since the adjustments to the financial reporting 
the existing financial assets, the financial assets that were  within the 12-months after the reporting date; and (ii) life­ systems are still in the process of implementation.
measured at amortized cost in accordance with ias 39  time ecls: these are ecls that result from all possible 
would have been also measured at amortized cost in accor­ default events over the expected life of a financial instru­ financial liabilities 
dance with ifrs 9. this is because these financial assets are  ment. lifetime ecl measurement applies if the credit risk  ifrs 9 largely retains the existing requirements in ias 39 
held within a business model whose objective is to hold  of a financial asset at the reporting date has increased sig­ for the classification of financial liabilities. however, under 
financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows,  nificantly since initial recognition, and 12-month ecl mea­ ias 39 all fair value changes of liabilities designated as at 
and the contractual terms of these instruments represent  surement applies if it has not. an entity may determine that  fvtpl are recognized in profit or loss, whereas under ifrs 9 
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal  a financial asset’s credit risk has not increased significantly  these fair value changes are generally presented as follows: 
amount outstanding. there would be a change for equity  if the asset has a low credit risk at the reporting date. how­ (i) the amount of change in the fair value that is attribut­
instruments that were classified as available-for-sale in  ever, lifetime ecl measurement always applies to trade  able to changes in the credit risk of the liability is present­
accordance with ias 39 but were measured at cost because  receivables and contract assets without a significant financ­ ed in oci; and (ii) the remaining amount of change in the 
the fair value could not be reliably measured. these invest­ ing component. an entity may choose to apply this policy  fair value is presented in profit or loss. the group has not 
ments are held for strategic purposes. such instruments  also to trade receivables and contract assets with a signif­ designated any financial liabilities as at fvtpl and the 
would have been measured at fair value in accordance with  icant financing component. group has no current intention to do so. the group’s pre­
ifrs 9. if these investments continue to be held for the same  liminary assessment did not indicate any material impact if  117
purpose at initial application of ifrs 9, then the group  the group will apply a practical expedient and measure  ifrs 9’s requirements on the classification of financial lia­
intends to elect to classify them as at fvoci, in which case  expected credit losses on its trade receivables using a pro­ bilities were applied to existing financial instruments.
all fair value gains and losses would be reported in oci, no  vision matrix. the new provision matrix was estimated 
impairment losses would be recognized in profit or loss and  based on the historical credit loss experience adjusted  hedge accounting
no gains or losses would be reclassified to profit or loss on  where appropriate for effects of the current conditions and  the group currently does not apply hedge accounting. 
disposal. no material impact is expected from this change.  the forecasts of future developments. the new provision 
matrix is not expected to result in a significantly different  disclosures 
impairment estimate of impairment losses on trade receivables at the  with the application of ifrs 9, ifrs 7 will require extensive 
ifrs 9 replaces the “incurred loss” model in ias 39 with a  date of initial application.  new disclosures, in particular in relation to credit risk and 
forward-looking “expected credit loss” (ecl) model. this  ecls. the group’s preliminary assessment included an analy-
will require considerable judgement as to how changes in  no further losses are expected to be recognized for other  sis to identify data gaps against current processes and the 
economic factors affect ecls, which will be determined on  financial assets (including loans, security deposits and cash  group plans to implement system and controls changes  that 
a probability-weighted basis. the new impairment model  and cash equivalents) due to a low credit risk. it believes will be necessary to capture the required data. 
will apply to financial assets measured at amortized cost or 
fvoci, except for investments in equity instruments, and  the actual impact may change, since the new accounting 
to contract assets. under ifrs 9, loss allowances will be  policies are subject to change until the group presents its 
measured on either of the following bases: (i) 12-month  first financial statements that include the date of initial appli­
notes to the consolidated  c. new standards and interpretations that have not yet been applied  annual report 2017
 financial statements
transition  and amount of revenue recognition as well as the assess­ ifric 4 determining whether an arrangement contains a 
changes in accounting policies resulting from the adoption  ment whether the group acts as principal or agent will not  lease, sic-15 operating leases – incentives and s ic-27 eval­
of ifrs 9 will generally be applied retrospectively, except  be materially affected by the adoption of the new s tandard.  uating the substance of transactions involving the legal 
as described below.  the actual impact may, however, change since the new  form of a lease. the standard is effective for annual peri­
accounting policies are subject to change until the group  ods beginning on or after january 1, 2019.  early adoption 
the group plans to take advantage of the exemption allow­ presents its first financial statements that include the date  is permitted for entities that apply ifrs 15 at or before the 
ing it not to restate comparative information for previous  of initial application and since the adjustments to the  date of initial application of ifrs 16. the group has started 
periods with respect to classification and measurement   financial reporting systems are still in the process of imple­ an initial assessment of the potential impact on its consol­
(including impairment) changes. differences in the carrying  mentation. idated financial statements. so far, the most significant 
amounts of financial assets resulting from the adoption of  impact identified is that the group will recognize new assets 
ifrs 9 will be recognized in retained earnings and reserves  transition  and liabilities for its operating leases. in addition, the 
as at january 1, 2018. the following assessments have to be  the group plans to adopt ifrs 15 in its consolidated finan­ nature of expenses related to those leases will now change 
made on the basis of the facts and circumstances that exist  cial statements for the year ending december 31, 2018, using  as ifrs 16 replaces the straight-line operating lease expense 
at the date of initial application: the determination of the  the modified retrospective method and account for the  with a depreciation charge for right-of-use assets and inter­
business model within which a financial asset is held; the  aggregate amount of any transition effects by way of an  est expense on lease liabilities. the group has not yet decid­
118 designation of certain financial assets and financial liabili­ adjustment to retained earnings as of january 1, 2018, and  ed whether it will use the optional exemptions. no signifi-
ties as measured at fvtpl if applicable; the designation of  presenting the comparative period in line with pre vious  cant impact is expected for the group’s finance leases.
certain investments in equity instruments not held for trad­ rules. the group is currently finalizing a detailed assess­
ing as at fvoci.  ment of the impact of the application of ifrs 15 and expects  the group will apply ifrs 16 initially on january 1, 2019. the 
to disclose additional quantitative information before it  group has not yet determined which transition approach 
ifrs 15 revenue from contracts with customers adopts ifrs 15.  to apply. the group is not required to make any adjustments 
ifrs 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for deter­ for leases in which it is a lessor, except where it is an inter­
mining whether, how much, and when revenue is recog­ ifrs 16 leases  mediate lessor in a sub-lease. the group has not yet quanti-
nized. it replaces the existing revenue recognition  guidance,  ifrs 16 introduces a single, on-balance sheet lease account­ fied the impact on its reported assets and  liabilities of the 
including ias 18 revenue, ias 11 construction contracts and  ing model for lessees. a lessee recognizes a right-of-use  adoption of ifrs 16. the quantitative effect will depend on, 
ifric 13 customer loyalty programs. ifrs 15 is effective for  asset representing its right to use the underlying asset and  inter alia, the transition method chosen, the extent to which 
annual periods beginning on or after january 1, 2018, with  a lease liability representing its obligation to make lease  the group uses the practical expedients and recognition 
early adoption permitted.  payments. there are optional exemptions for short-term  exemptions, and any additional  leases that the group enters 
leases and leases of low-value items. lessor accounting  into. the group expects to disclose its transition approach 
the group has completed its assessment of the potential  remains similar to the current standard – i.e. lessors con­ and quantitative information before adoption.
impact of the adoption of ifrs 15 on its consolidated finan­ tinue to classify leases as finance or operating leases. ifrs 16 
cial statements. it came to the conclusion that the timing  replaces existing leases guidance, including ias 17 leases, 
notes to the consolidated  d. scope of consolidation  annual report 2017
 financial statements
d. scope of consolidation number of equity-accounted companies the consideration transferred is allocated between the 
 recognized assets and assumed liabilities as follows:
 
01. changes in the group 2017 2016
in the reporting period, the number of consolidated sub­   fair values  
at the date of 
sidiaries changed as follows: january 1 3 2
eur million acquisition
additions 2 1
 
number of consolidated subsidiaries 
divestiture/consolidation 2 – intangible assets 5.2
  december 31 3 3 property, plant and equipment 1.0
2017 2016
trade and other receivables 0.7
 
january 1 136 106 other assets 0.2
additions 17 66 02. acquisitions cash and cash equivalents 3.1
disposals (including   in 2017 the group executed strategic acquisitions that are  provisions and liabilities –0.7
mergers and liquidations) 16 36 presented in further detail below.
trade payables –3.6
december 31 137 136
deferred tax liabilities –0.8
a) carriage group 119
net assets 5.0
acquisition of the carriage group (carriage) on june 14, 
the additions in 2017 primarily relate to the acquisitions of  2017, represents a strategic investment in the mena region.  consideration transferred 84.8
the carriage group (kuwait), fly & company (korea) and  carriage is based in kuwait and operates an innovative and  goodwill 79.8
appetito24 (panama) (refer to section d. 02.). in 2016 par­ fast growing food ordering portal in several countries in 
ticularly the acquisition of the foodpanda group affected  the middle east. carriage pursues a hybrid strategy offer­
the number of consolidated entities.  ing own delivery services in addition to its food ordering  due to the complexity of this acquisition, the initial account­
platform. ing for the business combination is incomplete as of decem­
disposals in 2017 mainly result from divestments in  georgia,  ber 31, 2017 in respect to the measurement of brands, cus­
kazakhstan and india as well as liquidations and mergers  in the course of the acquisition, 100% of the shares in  tomer relationships and deferred taxes. therefore, the 
following group internal restructuring measures.  carriage logistics general trading company llc (kuwait),  reported amounts are provisional pursuant to ifrs 3.45.
carriage delivery services llc (uae), carriage logistics spc 
the number of equity-accounted companies changed as set  (bahrain) and carriage trading & services co. wll (qatar)  goodwill, which consists primarily of not separable com­
forth in the following table: were acquired directly or indirectly. ponents such as positive business prospects and employee 
know-how, is not deductible for tax purposes. no items of 
the shares acquired also represent voting interest. the con­ acquired intangible assets have an indefinite useful life. 
sideration for the acquisition amounted to a total of  trade receivables from third parties with a gross value of 
€ 84.8 million in cash.  € 0.7 million were acquired and are assessed as being fully 
recoverable. the fair value of the trade receivables from 
the transaction costs for the acquisition recognized under  third parties amounts to € 0.7 million.
administrative expenses amounted to € 0.3 million in 2017.
notes to the consolidated  d. scope of consolidation  annual report 2017
 financial statements
a performance-related earn-out component has been  the acquisition of 100% of the shares in the panama based  brands, customer relationships and deferred taxes have 
agreed with the seller’s representatives in management  appetito24 group on october 2, 2017 represents a  strategic  been measured on a provisional basis pursuant to ifrs 3.45 
functions of the carriage companies, which is recognized  investment in the americas region. appetito24 is an online  pending finalization of valuation procedures. should new 
in profit or loss over the service period ending on decem­ food delivery marketplace with its own delivery service. information be obtained about facts and circumstances 
ber 31, 2018. the fair value of the future payments related  that existed at the dates of acquisition as a result of these 
to the earn-out component amounts to € 42.7 million as of  the shares acquired within both acquisitions are also rep­ procedures, the acquisition accounting will be revised.
december 31, 2017 and is recognized separate from the con­ resentative of the shareholder voting rights. the consider­
sideration transferred as other long-term employee  benefit.  ation for the acquisitions amounts to a total of € 11.0 million  goodwill, which consists primarily of not separable com­
the proportional liability as of december 31, 2017 amounts  in cash and € 2.4 million of previously held interest in the  ponents such as positive business prospects and employee 
to € 14.6 million included in other liabilities. these corre­ acquiree.  know-how, is not deductible for tax purposes. no items of 
sponding expenses are excluded from adjusted  ebitda as  acquired intangible assets have an indefinite useful life. 
part of the management adjustments for corporate trans­ the transaction costs for the acquisitions are estimated  trade receivables from third parties with a gross value of 
actions.  with € 0.2 million.  € 0.6 million were acquired and are assessed as being fully 
recoverable. the fair value of the trade receivables from 
since first-time inclusion as of june 14, 2017, carriage has  the consideration transferred is allocated between the  third parties amounts to € 0.6 million.
120 contributed € 14.9 million to group revenue and a loss   recognized assets and assumed liabilities as follows:
€ 3.5 million to net loss. if carriage had been consolidated  since their first inclusion in october 2017, the acquired com­
as of january 1, 2017, the carriage group would have con­ fair values   panies have contributed € 1.9 million to group revenues 
at the date of 
tributed € 20.4 million to revenue and a loss of € 3.5 million  and a negative contribution of € 0.8 million to the group’s 
eur million acquisition
to consolidated loss. net loss. if the companies had already been consolidated 
 
as of january 1, 2017, these companies would have contrib­
intangible assets 0.6
b) other acquisitions uted € 7.9 million to group revenues and a negative 
property, plant and equipment 0.0
the following acquisitions in 2017 are each individually con­ € 1.3 million to the group’s net loss.
sidered to be insignificant and therefore presented in aggre­ trade and other receivables 0.6
gate. other assets 0.1 c) acquisitions in the previous year
cash and cash equivalents 1.5 on december 31, 2016 the foodpanda group was acquired. 
on october 10, 2017, delivery hero acquired the remaining  provisions and liabilities –0.6 the provisional accounting for the acquisition in accor­
shares in fly & company inc., korea (fly & company) a food  dance with ifrs 3.45 as of that date remained unchanged 
trade payables –1.3
delivery platform based in seoul. before the trans action,  as presented below.
deferred tax liabilities –0.1
delivery hero already held a 21% stake in fly & company, 
net assets 0.9
which was valued with € 2.4 million. the entity operates a 
food delivery marketplace with own delivery service, allow­ consideration transferred 13.4
ing it to add restaurants to its platform that do not offer  goodwill 12.4
delivery services themselves. 
notes to the consolidated  d. scope of consolidation  annual report 2017
 financial statements
fair values   b) nci summarized statement of comprehensive income  
at the date of 
as of december 31, 2017 the group has material nci (37%)  of hungerstation llc 
eur million acquisition
in its hungerstation subsidiary (kingdom saudi arabia 
 
intangible assets 32.8
(ksa)) and 16% in its rgp korea (korea) subsidiary.  eur million 2017 2016
property, plant and equipment 2.1
 
trade and other receivables 19.5 hungerstation was acquired as part of the foodpanda group  revenue 23.9 –
other assets 2.6 as of december 31, 2016. the following tables provide  earnings before income taxes –4.6 –
cash and cash equivalents 132.4  summarized financial information before intragroup elim­ income taxes 2.2 –
ination:
deferred tax assets 2.0 earnings after taxes –2.4 –
provisions and liabilities –5.6 other comprehensive income –15.9 –
summarized statement of financial position  
trade payables –18.2 of hungerstation llc  total comprehensive income –18.4 –
deferred tax liabilities –5.7 comprehensive loss attributable 
  
to non-controlling interests –1.1 –
net assets 161.9 eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
consideration transferred 373.1  
current 121
thereof shareholder’s non-cash contribution  
and other consideration 373.1 assets 7.4 5.1 summarized statement of cash flows  
of hungerstation llc
non-controlling interests 4.2 liabilities 11.8 5.8
goodwill 215.4 current net assets/net debt –4.4 –0.7  
eur million 2017 2016
non-current    
 
assets 117.9 134.8 cash generated from operations 1.2 –
03.  disclosures on participations   liabilities 0.3 0.1 net cash generated from  
pursuant to ifrs 12 non-current net assets 117.6 134.7 operating activities 1.2 –
total net assets 113.2 134.0 net cash flows from  
a) subsidiaries investing activities –1.1 –
on december 31, 2017 the dh group had 137 fully  consoli -  net cash flows from  
dated subsidiaries. financing activities 2.5 –
net change in cash and  
refer to section h. 10. for a complete list of the group’s sub­ cash equivalents 2.6 –
sidiaries. cash and cash equivalents  
at the beginning of the period 0.9 –
effect of exchange rate  
movements in cash and  
cash equivalents –0.2 –
cash and cash equivalents  
at the end of the period 3.3 –
notes to the consolidated  d. scope of consolidation  annual report 2017
 financial statements
accumulated non-controlling interests of hungerstation,  summarized statement of comprehensive income   c) associated companies
ksa amounts to € 2.4 million as of december 31, 2017  of rgp korea ltd.  as of december 31, 2017 the dh group has interest in three  
(december 31, 2016: € 3.5 million). individually immaterial associates (december 31, 2016: three) 
 
eur million 2017 2016 (refer to section h. 10.). following disposal of a 51% stake 
as of december 31, 2016 the group had material nci (16%)    in restaurant partner polska sp. z.o.o. in april 2017, dh 
in its subsidiary rgp korea ltd. as of december 31, 2017 all  revenue 51.8 28.0 group’s stake decreased to 49%. consequentially from 
nci of rgp korea ltd. was assumed to be acquired based  earnings before income taxes –2.3 –12.4 thereon this associate is accounted at equity. fly & compa­
on the put option right of the minority shareholder that  ny ceases to represent an associate upon acquisition of the 
earnings after taxes –2.5 –14.0
became exercisable upon ipo which will be settled in a  remaining shares in october 2017 (refer to section b. 02. b)). 
other comprehensive income 0.6 –0.6
fixed number of delivery hero ag shares (refer to section 
total comprehensive income –1.9 –14.6
h. 02. a)). the carrying amount of the associated companies as of 
comprehensive loss attributable  december 31, 2017 amounts to € 5.9 million (previous year: 
to non-controlling interests –0.1 –2.2
accumulated non-controlling interests of rgp korea ltd. was  € 3.3 million), the share of loss attributable to dh group in 
n.a. as of december 31, 2017 (previous year: € –10,1 million). 2017 amounts to € 1.6 million (previous year share of loss: 
€ 5.1 million).
122 the following table provides summarized financial infor­ summarized statement of cash flows  
mation before intragroup elimination: of rgp korea ltd.  d) loss of control of subsidiaries
in december 2017 the dh group sold a 95% stake of its food­
 
summarized statement of financial position   eur million 2017 2016 panda india business to ola, india in return for a minority 
of rgp korea ltd.    stake in the ola group. the resulting disposal gain 
  cash generated from operations 15.3 –2.3 (€ 20.3 million) is recognized in other operating income. 
eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016 net cash generated from   the fair value of the 5% investment retained in foodpanda 
  operating activities 15.3 –2.3 india amounted to € 1.1 million as of december 31, 2017. in 
current net cash flows from   april 2017 51% of restaurant partner polska sp. z.o.o. was 
assets – 14.0 investing  activities –11.8 –1.3 sold, resulting in a loss of control. the remaining 49% was 
net cash flows from   accounted under the equity method. 
liabilities – 20.8
financing  activities 10.0 5.8
current net assets – –6.8
net change in cash and   at the time when control was lost foodpanda india and 
non-current   cash equivalents 13.5 2.2 restaurant partner polska sp. z.o.o in aggregate had cash 
assets – 8.4 cash and cash equivalents   and equivalents of € 7.9 million, assets other than cash and 
liabilities – 65.3 at the beginning of the period 6.4 4.1 cash equivalents of € 7.2 million and liabilities of € 6.6 million.
non-current assets – –56.9 effect of exchange rate  
movements in cash and  
total net assets – –63.8 cash equivalents 0.2 0.1
cash and cash equivalents  
at the end of the period 20.1 6.4
notes to the consolidated  d. scope of consolidation  annual report 2017
 financial statements
e) discontinued operations profit or loss from the discontinued operation  the assets and liabilities of the disposal group are as follows:
sale of the hungryhouse group
 
on december 15, 2016 the company announced its intent  eur million 2017 2016  
eur million dec. 31, 2017
to sell its hungryhouse group, which operates an online   
food ordering portal for the british market, in line with  revenue 52.1 43.9  
intangible assets 11.4
delivery hero’s strategy to further build its leadership posi­ consolidation of  
tions and consolidate markets. the buyer of the shares is  intragroup revenue –11.6 –8.4 property, plant and equipment 0.1
just eat plc (“just eat”). the divestment, which was subject  external revenue 40.5 35.6 deferred tax assets 0.1
to approval by the united kingdom competition and mar­ expenses –68.0 –56.6 inventories 0.3
kets authority (cma) and received on november 17, 2017, was 
consolidation of   trade and other receivables 2.5
executed on january 31, 2018 (refer to subsequent events –  intragroup expenses 18.0 17.6 other current assets 0.1
section i.). the sales price amounts to gbp 240 million. as 
external expenses –50.1 –39.0 cash and cash equivalents 13.6
a result, the assets of the hungryhouse group are recognized 
as assets included in a disposal group classified as held for  profit or loss from   assets held for sale 28.1
discontinued operations –9.6 –3.4
sale and the liabilities of the hungryhouse group are classi­ other liabilities –
income taxes –0.4 –0.2
fied as liabilities included in a disposal group classified as  deferred tax liabilities 0.1 123
profit or loss from  
held for sale as of december 31, 2017 and 20161.
discontinued operations   other current provisions 5.0
after taxes –10.0 –3.6 current trade and other payables 7.0
the hungryhouse group represents a material geogra phical 
other non-financial liabilities (current) 1.7
operation within the dh group and is therefore  presented 
as a discontinued operation in the consolidated statement  in 2017 the oci (net) includes  foreign currency translation  income tax liabilities (current) 0.1
of profit or loss and other comprehensive income for 2017  gains from discontinued operation of € 1.4 million (2016:  liabilities held for sale 13.9
and 2016. in accordance with ifrs 5.15, the discontinued  gains of € 4.0 million).
operation was measured at carrying amount as this is  lower 
than the fair value less costs of disposal. cash flows from discontinued operations are as follows:
the profit or loss from discontinued operations are as  cash flows from the discontinued operation 
 follows:
  
eur million 2017 2016
 
net cash flows from  
operating  activities –23.9 0.4
net cash flows from  
investing  activities – –
net cash flows from  
financing  activities 35.7 0.8
net cash flows for the year 11.7 1.2
1  for the restatement of assets and liabilities allocated to the disposal group refer 
to section a. 02.
notes to the consolidated  e. operating segments  annual report 2017
 financial statements
e. operating segments 02. s egment information and reconciliation   b) adjusted ebitda
of segment information
01. segmentation principles  change
the management board of the company represents the  a) revenue   eur 
group’s chief operating decision maker. in line with the  sales between segments are conducted at market prices.  eur million 2017 2016  million %
management approach, the operating segments are iden­ the revenue with external customers reported to the man­  
tified on the basis of the internal reporting structure. inter­ aging director generally equals the measurement of the  europe –45.5 –47.5 2.1 –4.4
nal reporting is the basis for the allocation of resources and  revenue recognized in the statement of comprehensive  mena  23.9 21.2 2.7 12.6
the evaluation of the performance of the operating seg­ income. segment revenue in 2017 is presented as follows: asia –47.1 –25.1 –22.0 87.8
ments by the management board.
americas  –25.4 –19.7 –5.7 28.8
change
adjusted ebitda 
the group’s business activity is segmented according to    eur  of the segments –94.2 –71.2 –23.0 32.3
geographical attributes. there is separate internal report­ eur million 2017 2016  million %
consolidation 
ing to the management board for the europe, mena, asia    adjusments –2.1 –0.6 –1.5 > 100
and americas regions. turkey is assigned to the mena seg­ europe 198.8 140.6 58.2 41.4
management 
124 ment, australia to the asia segment, and canada to the  mena  153.3 75.5 77.7 > 100 adjustments –32.9 –11.2 –21.7 > 100
americas segment. the group offers food ordering and  asia 144.8 49.3 95.5 > 100 expenses for 
delivery services with a different configuration of plat­ americas  47.4 24.8 22.5 90.8 share-based 
form-based marketplace offers and delivery services   compensation –69.5 –15.8 –53.8 > 100
segment revenue  544.2 290.3 253.9 87.5
depending on the respective markets. the regional range  other reconci-
of services is determined partly by demand, infrastructure,  consolidation – – – – liation items 8.3 –8.1 16.4 > 100
demographic circumstances, and the competitive situation.  reconciliation  amortization and 
effects –0.5 –0.4 1 –0.1 1 17.0 1 depreciation –54.7 –52.9 –1.8 3.3
the profitability of the operating segments is measured on  group revenue 543.7 289.9 1 253.9 1 87.6 1 net interest  
and other  
the basis of adjusted ebitda. adjusted ebitda is the earn­ 1  the 2016 comparative group revenue and reconciliation effects are adjusted. 
financial result –91.3 –42.5 –48.9 > 100
ings from continuing operations before income taxes, finan­ contractual provisions have been misinterpreted by assuming the dh group  
to act as principal for certain food sales to end customers with the result of 
earnings before 
cial result, depreciation and amortization and non-operat­  recognizing revenue and cost of sales on a gross basis. 2016 group revenues 
and  reconciliation effects are adjusted by (€ –7.1 million). cost of sales are  income taxes –336.4 –202.3 –134.1 66.3
ing earnings effects. non-operating earnings effects 
adjusted correspondingly by this amount.
comprise, in particular (i) expenses for share-based pay­
ment, (ii) expenses for services in connection with corpo­
rate transactions and financing rounds, (iii) expenses for  revenue reconciliation effects reflect segment classifica­ in 2017 the management adjustments include expenses for 
reorganization measures, (iv) expenses for the implemen­ tion and measurement (particularly foreign currency trans­ services in connection with business transactions and 
tation of information technology, (v) expenses for the  lation convention) differences. financing of € 22.3 million (previous year: € 6.3 million), 
achievement of capital market capability, and (vi) other  expenses for the realization of capital market viability of 
non-operating expenses and income, especially the result  € 5.0 million (previous year: € 2.4 million), expenses for 
from disposal of tangible and intangible assets, the result  reorganization measures of € 5.1 million (previous year: 
from income and expenses from sale and abandonment of  € 1.8 million), and expenses for the implementation of infor­
subsidiaries, allowances for other receivables, and non-in­ mation technologies of € 0.5 million (previous year: 
come taxes. € 0.8 million).
notes to the consolidated  e. operating segments  annual report 2017
 financial statements f.  disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position
other reconciliation items do include non-operating income  b) non-current assets f.  disclosures on the consolidated 
and expenses. in 2017 this item included in particular gains   statement of financial position
from the disposal of subsidiaries of € 19.5 million (previous   
year: € –1.5 million), impairment of other assets and receiv­ eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016 01. intangible assets
ables of € 0.6 million (previous year: € 2.9 million), as well   
germany 281.5 281.5
as non-income-tax of € 6.2 million (previous year:  a) reconciliation of carrying amount
€ 2.6 million).  turkey 353.2 436.0 intangible assets declined by € 71.4 million in the current 
kuwait 192.2 129.1 year. this change is primarily due to foreign currency effects 
03. information about geographical areas saudi arabia 122.8 121.9 notably as a result of the appreciation of the euro. the 
the tables below show the revenue and non-current assets  decline in goodwill caused by foreign currency differences 
other countries 302.6 355.5
for germany and other material countries for the group.  was offset by the addition of goodwill from the acquisition 
total 1,252.4 1,323.9
the geographical allocation of the revenue and assets is  of the carriage group as well as fly & company ltd. and 
based on the domicile of each subsidiary. appetito24 (refer to section d. 02.).
non-current assets do not include financial instruments, 
a) revenue deferred tax assets or assets for employee benefits. goodwill is not subject to amortization. 
125
  the useful life of the brands identified as part of the acqui­
eur million 2017 2016
sitions in 2017 is between three and five years and that of 
  the customer and supplier relationships is three years. the 
germany 90.3 72.7
remaining useful life of the other brands may extend from 
korea 73.0 40.8 two to twenty-two years; that of the other customer and 
turkey 49.4 39.8 supplier relationships ranges between three and ten years.
kuwait 47.5 21.3
amortization of intangible assets is recognized in admin­
other countries 283.4 115.3 1
istrative expenses. for the overall amount of amortization 
subtotal continuing operations 543.7 289.9 1
in the financial year, refer to section g. 05.
united kingdom 40.3 35.6
total 584.1 325.5 1
1 adjusted (refer to section e. 02. a)).
notes to the consolidated  f. disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position  annual report 2017
 financial statements
movements in intangible assets:
customer/ 
internally  supplier base 
licenses and   generated  and other 
eur million goodwill  similar rights trademarks software  intangible assets  intangible assets total
 
cost
as of jan. 1, 2017 706.7 4.9 479.2 15.4 6.7 177.9 1,390.8
additions through business combinations 93.0 – 3.7 0.9 1.1 1.9 100.7
disposals due to deconsolidation –4.8 –0.9 –0.7 –0.3 –0.1 – –6.7
additions 0.1 0.5 – 2.7 1.8 1.5 6.6
reclassifications – 1.1 0.1 0.4 – –0.8 0.8
disposals – – – –0.3 –0.2 –0.1 –0.6
translation differences –62.1 –0.6 –55.8 –0.4 –0.7 –11.7 –131.3
126
as of dec. 31, 2017 733.0 5.1 426.5 18.4 8.5 168.9 1,360.3
accumulated amortization and impairment losses
as of jan. 1, 2017 –15.5 –3.5 –42.2 –5.4 –0.4 –29.8 –96.8
additions through business combinations – – – –0.9 –1.0 – –1.9
disposals due to deconsolidation – 0.5 0.3 0.1 0.1 – 0.9
amortization – –0.6 –21.9 –2.4 –2.6 –15.6 –43.2
impairment losses –4.0 – –0.1 –0.2 – –0.1 –4.4
reclassifications – –0.5 –0.1 –0.6 – 0.4 –0.8
disposals – 0.1 – 0.1 0.1 – 0.3
translation differences – 0.4 5.2 0.3 0.2 2.2 8.2
as of dec. 31, 2017 –19.5 –3.6 –58.8 –9.1 –3.7 –42.9 –137.7
carrying amount as of dec. 31, 2017 713.5 1.4 367.7 9.3 4.8 126.0 1,222.6
carrying amount as of jan. 1, 2017 691.2 1.5 437.0 10.0 6.3 148.0 1,294.0
notes to the consolidated  f. disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position  annual report 2017
 financial statements
customer/ 
internally  supplier base  
licenses and   generated  and other 
eur million goodwill  similar rights trademarks software  intangible assets  intangible assets total
 
cost
as of jan. 1, 2016 527.4 1.4 517.7 8.5 1.9 165.1 1,222.1
additions through business combinations 215.9 – 10.7 5.3 3.8 13.0 248.7
disposals due to deconsolidation –2.0 –0.1 –4.4 – – –1.5 –8.0
additions – 0.6 –0.1 4.1 1.5 2.2 8.3
reclassifications –11.0 1 3.0 –1.5 –1.6 – –2.1 –13.2 1
disposals – – – –0.6 – – –0.7
translation differences –23.6 0.1 –43.4 –0.3 –0.4 1.2 –66.5
127
as of dec. 31, 2016 706.7 1 4.9 479.2 15.4 6.7 177.9 1,390.8 1
accumulated amortization and impairment losses
as of jan. 1, 2016 –7.9 –0.9 –27.9 –4.7 –0.2 –19.0 –60.4
disposals due to deconsolidation 2.0 0.1 4.3 – – 1.5 8.0
amortization – –0.6 –22.6 –1.3 –0.3 –14.4 –39.2
impairment losses –9.6 – –0.1 –0.1 – –0.2 –10.1
reclassifications – –2.0 1.5 0.3 – 2.1 1.8
disposals – – – 0.1 – – –
translation differences 0.1 –0.1 2.6 0.2 – 0.2 3.0
as of dec. 31, 2016 –15.5 1 –3.5 –42.2 –5.5 –0.4 –29.8 –96.8 1
carrying amount as of dec. 31, 2016 691.2 1 1.5 437.0 10.0 6.3 148.0 1,294.0 1
carrying amount as of jan. 1, 2016 519.6 0.6 489.8 3.8 1.7 146.1 1,161.7
1 restated (refer to section a. 02.).
notes to the consolidated  f. disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position  annual report 2017
 financial statements
b) breakdown of goodwill of € 2.0 million. the total impairment losses of € 4.0 million 
for the purpose of testing for impairment, the group allo­ were recorded within other operating e xpenses. 
cates the goodwill to the cash-generating units. at decem­
ber 31, 2017 and 2016 the goodwill was allocated as f ollows  in 2016 goodwill impairment losses of € 9.6 million were 
taking into account the recognized impairment losses: recognized for the cgu delivery hero germany gmbh.
  the fair value less costs of disposal of the cgus (categorized 
eur million 2017 2016
as level 3 of the fair value hierarchy) was calculated by apply­
  ing the discounted cash flow method. basis for determining 
yemek sepeti group 136.0 165.7
the expected future cash flows is a detailed planning  period 
delivery hero germany gmbh  of three years for each cgu. as the businesses are not 
(formerly lieferheld gmbh) 125.7 125.7
expected being in steady state, the expected future cash 
hungerstation group 107.6 – flows (before interest and taxes) of each cgus are deter­
carriage group 75.0 – mined under consideration of cgu-specific revenue growth 
talabat group 55.6 62.4 and ebitda growth assumptions. the perpetuity was cal­
128 subtotal 499.9 353.8 culated on this basis as well.
goodwill of other cgus 213.6 337.4 1
the following table shows the key planning assumptions in 
total 713.5 691.2 1
2017:
1 restated (refer to section a. 02.).
cgu 2017
goodwill of the cgu yemek sepeti group declined as of 
yemek   delivery hero  hunger station  carriage   talabat   other  
december 31, 2017 compared with previous year as a result  % sepeti group germany gmbh  group group group goodwill
of foreign currency translation movements.   
revenue growth p.a.  
the cgu hungerstation has been acquired as part of the  in planning period (cagr) 23.9 8.9 16.6 26.5 14.0 16.8
acquisition of the foodpanda group in 2016. as of decem­ average ebitda margin  
in planning period 49.3 10.9 17.7 18.8 41.6 10.8
ber 31, 2016 hungerstation was subsumed in the food panda 
cgu and subsequently allocated into a discrete cgu.    terminal value revenue growth 6.9 1.3 1.7 2.6 2.2 2.2
ebitda margin  
the recoverable amount of all cgus exceeded their carrying  after end of planning period 51.8 35.0 30.0 30.0 45.0 33.7
amount in course of the 2017 annual impairment test, except  average discount rate  
for the cgu croatia where € 2.0 million of impairment loss­ in planning period/wacc 16.3 8.0 9.2 9.9 9.7 11.2
es were recognized in relation to goodwill. the recoverable  age of company (years) 16 9 3 3 6 8
amount of the cgu croatia that is part of the segment 
europe was € 2.8 million. in addition, the net assets of 
9coockies were written off resulting in the impairment loss 
notes to the consolidated  f. disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position  annual report 2017
 financial statements
the following table shows the key planning assumptions 
in 2016:
cgu 2016
yemek   delivery hero  hungerstation  carriage   talabat   other  
% sepeti group germany gmbh group group group goodwill
 
revenue growth p.a.  
in planning period (cagr) 22.3 8.7 n.a. n.a. 30.1 32.7
average ebitda margin  
in planning period 56.3 22.9 n.a. n.a. 54.1 8.9
terminal value revenue growth 7.6 1.0 n.a. n.a. 3.2 2.1
ebitda margin  
after end of planning period 60.0 37.4 n.a. n.a. 49.1 30.0
average discount rate  
in planning period/wacc 16.2 7.7 n.a. n.a. 10.1 9.9
129
age of company (years) 15 8 n.a. n.a. 5 7
the planning process for each cgu is based on a structured  tomer retention/reorder rate, customer activity rate, aver­ cgu/country. due to the assumption of full equity financ­
bottom-up approach that is carried out once a year. the  age order size and commission rates. ing, the wacc contains no debt component.
overall process is directed by central management via top-
down target-setting in the form of country-/company-  costs, except for marketing, are planned using revenue  as part of the annual impairment testing in 2017, a sensi­
specific kpis. the respective local management then pre­ based percentages. tivity analysis was conducted. in each scenario, an increase 
pares the business plan and adjusts it in an iterative process  of the base rate by 100 basis points (bps) and an absolute 
together with central management. the equity component of 2017 wacc is based on a uniform  reduction of the planned ebitda margin by five p ercentage 
risk-free base rate of 1.25% for the euro area (previous year:  points were assumed. none of these scenarios, in non-im­
local management teams use cohort models for revenue  1.00%) and a cgu-specific risk premium between 6.0% and  pairment situations, triggered additional impairment in 
planning. the cohort models analyze the past order  25.0% (previous year: 6.5% to 18.0%). the risk premium main­ other cgu.
 behavior of (local) end customers and apply statistic  ly contains adjustment components for inflation and coun­
 methods to forecast the future behavior of existing end cus­ try risk as well as market risk and cgu-specific premiums.  
tomers. future revenue from new end customers is derived  these cgu-specific premiums depend on the age of the cgu 
from the planned marketing expenses and the development  and decline towards maturity. in addition, an entity- specific 
of estimated acquisition costs per new end customer. the  risk factor (beta factor) of 1.04 is used across all cgus. tax 
main assumptions for the cohort models include the cus­ rates of between 0% and 35% are applied dependent on the 
notes to the consolidated  f. disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position  annual report 2017
 financial statements
02. property, plant and equipment
movements in property, plant and equipment:
advance  advance 
 payments for   payments for 
leasehold  operating  property,  leasehold  operating  property, 
improve­ and office  plant and  improve­ and office  plant and 
eur million ments equipment equipment total eur million ments equipment equipment total
   
cost cost
as of jan. 1, 2017 4.9 21.3 – 26.1 as of jan. 1, 2016 1.7 11.0 1.1 13.8
additions through business combinations 0.1 1.4  –  1.5 additions through business combinations  –  3.5  –  3.5
disposals due to deconsolidation – –1.4 – –1.4 disposals due to deconsolidation – –1.0 – –1.0
additions 1.9 10.6 4.1 16.6 additions 2.3 8.1 – 10.4
reclassifications 3.1 0.4 –3.5 – reclassifications 1.0 – –1.1 –0.1
130 disposals –0.4 –3.1 0.1 –3.5 disposals – –0.3  –  –0.3
translation differences –0.1 –1.2 –0.5 –1.8 translation differences –0.1 –0.1 – –0.2
as of dec. 31, 2017 9.3 28.0 0.2 37.6 as of dec. 31, 2016 4.9 21.3 – 26.1
accumulated depreciation accumulated depreciation
as of jan. 1, 2017 –1.5 –9.1  –  –10.6 as of jan. 1, 2016 –1.3 –4.9  –  –6.1
additions through business combinations – –0.5  –  –0.5 additions through business combinations  –  –1.5  –  –1.5
disposals due to deconsolidation  –  1.0 – 1.0 disposals due to deconsolidation – 0.3  –  0.3
depreciation –0.6 –6.1  –  –6.8 depreciation –0.4 –3.3  –  –3.7
impairment losses  –  – – – impairment losses  –  –  –  –
reclassifications  –  –  –  – disposals  –  0.1  –  0.1
disposals 0.4 1.6  –  2.1 translation differences – 0.1  –  0.1
translation differences 0.1 0.5  –  0.6 as of dec. 31, 2016 –1.5 –9.1  –  –10.6
as of dec. 31, 2017 –1.7 –12.5 – –14.2 carrying amount as of dec. 31, 2016 3.3 12.2 – 15.5
carrying amount as of dec. 31, 2017 7.6 15.5 0.2 23.4 carrying amount as of jan. 1, 2016 0.4 6.2 1.1 7.7
carrying amount as of jan. 1, 2017 3.3 12.2 – 15.5
notes to the consolidated  f. disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position  annual report 2017
 financial statements
the increase in operating and office equipment is  primarily  03. other financial assets 04. trade and other receivables
the result of growth and increased business activities. the  other non-current financial assets are composed as follows: the following table gives an overview of group receivables:
reclassifications from prepayments to leasehold improve­
ments relates to the preparation of and relocation to new      restated  
eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016 eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
office premises in turkey in 2017. for acquisitions in the 
financial year, please also refer also to section d. 02.    
investments 28.7 2.5 receivables from payment  
service provider 37.0 10.6
to a minor extent operating and office equipment is leased  loans granted 1.8 1.9
trade receivables 36.7 28.6
to third parties on a short-term basis. the lessee generally  miscellaneous 0.9 2.3
has the right to terminate the lease at any time. the carry­ total 31.4 6.7 receivable from former  
group company 12.3  – 
ing amount of this equipment is as follows:
purchase price receivable  –  10.7
  investments as of december 31, 2017 mostly relate to shares  miscellaneous 2.8 0.8
eur million 2017 2016
in ani technologies private limited (ani), holding com pany  total 88.8 50.8
  of the ola group. ani is located in bengaluru, india and 
cost as of jan. 1 1.2 1.1
operates a mobility platform in india. the ani shares, with  131
accumulated depreciation   a fair value of € 26.5 million, were received as consideration  receivable against former group company relates to settle­
on jan. 1 –0.4 –0.2
for the 95% stake in the dh group’s subsidiary pisces eser­ ment of intercompany transactions with a former indian sub­
translation differences – – vices private limited (foodpanda india) sold in december  sidiary disposed in december 2017 (refer to section d. 03. d)), 
depreciation –0.2 –0.2 2017. investments further include the remaining 5% stake  settled at the beginning of 2018. the purchase price receiv­
carrying amount as of dec. 31 0.5 0.7 in foodpanda india. able in 2016 primarily included the remaining receivable 
from the sale of delivery club ooo (former subsidiary of 
foodpanda group).
notes to the consolidated  f. disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position  annual report 2017
 financial statements
05. other assets the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities between  deferred tax assets for tax loss carryforwards and deduct­
other assets are composed as follows: december 31, 2017 and 2016 mainly results from the amor­ ible temporary differences are recognized only to the extent 
tization of intangible assets identified in previous acquisi­ that the realization of the tax benefit through future  taxable 
  restated   tions but also from currency effects. all deferred taxes are  profits is probable. the group has not recognized any 
eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
reported as non-current, including when current utilization  deferred tax assets for temporary differences amounting 
  is assumed.  to € 34.0 million (previous year: € 16.6 million). in addition, 
advance payments/ 
deferred tax assets are not recognized for interest carry­
prepaid expenses 9.7 6.2
the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities results from  forwards (potentially tax deductible in future periods) 
value-added-tax receivables 7.1 2.9
the effects presented below:  amounting to € 18.7 million in 2017 (previous year: 
miscellaneous other assets 1.1 2.0 € 15.3 million). furthermore, no deferred tax assets are 
total 17.9 11.1   recorded for trade tax loss carryforwards of € 196.7 million 
eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
thereof current 17.6 11.3 (previous year: € 100.1 million) or for corporation tax loss 
thereof non-current 0.3 0.1   carryforwards of € 490.2 million (previous year: 
deferred tax assets – 4.4
€ 383.3 million). the trade tax loss carryforwards have no 
deferred tax liabilities 81.7 108.1 limitations on utilization. the limitation on utilization of 
132 06. deferred income taxes net deferred taxes recognized 81.7 103.7 corporation tax loss carryforwards is as follows:
deferred tax assets and liabilities as of december 31, 2017  year-on-year change –22.0 –25.5
and 2016 are as follows:  
thereof recognized  
eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
in profit or loss 12.2 21.5
dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016  
thereof recognized  
total corporation tax  
    directly in equity – –
loss carryforwards 490.2 383.3
eur million assets  liabilities  assets  liabilities 
thereof recognized upon 
expiration    
   acquisitions –0.9 –3.7
deferred taxes 28.2 109.9 27.1 130.8 within 5 years 36.0 86.1
translation differences 10.7 7.7
current 3.1 2.1 3.8 0.1 after 5 years 95.8 71.2
non-current 25.2 107.9 23.3 130.8 eligible to be carried  
forward indefinitely 358.4 226.1
offsetting –28.2 –28.2 –22.8 –22.8
total – 81.7 4.4 108.1
significant unrecognized deferred tax assets for unused tax 
loss carryforwards relate to delivery hero gmbh amount­
ing to € 140.5 million (previous year: € 87.5 million) and rgp 
korea ltd. amounting to € 43.9 million (previous year: 
€ 50.0 million).
notes to the consolidated  f. disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position  annual report 2017
 financial statements
classes of assets and liabilities related to temporary differ­
ences:
dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2017
change  thereof  change  thereof 
  deferred   deferred    during    recognized in    deferred   deferred    during    recognized in 
eur thousands tax assets tax liabilities the year profit or loss eur thousands tax assets tax liabilities the year profit or loss
   
assets current liabilities
non-current assets financial liabilities – – –40 –40
intangible assets 12 107,303 19,479 8,955 other provisions 1,334 – –1,055 –738
property, plant and equipment 48 547 –174 –180 trade and other payables 252 1,736 –2,051 –2,198
other financial assets 891 3 2,043 2,047 other liabilities 194 – 143 153
trade and other receivables – 1 –1 –1 total temporary differences 4,645 109,933 20,980 10,738
current assets tax loss carryforwards 23,603 – 1,024 1,462
133
inventories 4 – – – total 28,248 109,933 22,004 12,200
trade and other receivables 1,297 322 654 687 offsetting –28,248 –28,248 – –
other assets – 1 –374 –332 total after offsetting – 81,685 – –
cash and cash equivalents – 20 –20 –22
equity and liabilities
non-current liabilities
financial liabilities – – 461 461
pension provisions 112 – 85 93
other provisions 473 – 118 141
trade and other payables 2 – 1,686 1,686
other liabilities 26 – 26 26
notes to the consolidated  f. disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position  annual report 2017
 financial statements
dec. 31, 2016 dec. 31, 2016
change  thereof  change  thereof 
  deferred   deferred    during    recognized in    deferred   deferred    during    recognized in 
eur thousands tax assets tax liabilities the year profit or loss eur thousands tax assets tax liabilities the year profit or loss
   
assets current liabilities
non-current assets financial liabilities 40 – 40 40
intangible assets 232 127,002 10,807 8,184 other provisions 2,389 – 192 473
property, plant and equipment 76 401 –316 –313 trade and other payables 598 31 –5,145 –5,152
other financial assets 61 1,216 –1,164 –1,167 total temporary differences 4,552 130,820 12,261 9,985
current assets tax loss carryforwards 22,579 – 13,239 11,508
inventories 4 – –1 – total 27,131 130,820 25,500 21,493
trade and other receivables 345 24 1,121 1,106 offsetting –22,759 –22,759 – –
other assets 373 – 375 384 total after offsetting 4,372 108,061 – –
134 equity and liabilities
non-current liabilities
financial liabilities – 461 –461 –461
pension provisions 27 – 6 9
other provisions 355 – –1,192 –1,127
trade and other payables 1 1,685 7,997 8,000
neither deferred tax assets nor deferred tax liabilities on  07. inventories the amount of inventories recognized as an expense during 
temporary differences relating to interests in subsidiaries  inventories mainly consists of hardware, packaging mate­ the period amounts to € 0.9 million (previous year: 
of € 68.1 million (previous year: nil) and € 33.6 million (pre­ rials such as pizza boxes, and advertising materials that are  € 2.3 million).
vious year: € 51.0 million) respectively were recognized, as  sold to partner restaurants. 
it is not probable that the temporary differences will be  08. cash and cash equivalents
reversed in the foreseeable future.  inventories are composed as follows:  cash and cash equivalents are composed as follows:
  restated      restated  
eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016 eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
merchandise 2.2 0.4  
cash at banks 625.6 227.6
advance payments 0.2 0.1
cash on hand 1.8 1.3
total 2.4 0.5
total 627.3 228.8
notes to the consolidated  f. disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position  annual report 2017
 financial statements
besides the increased negative cash flows from operating  a) subscribed capital b) authorized capital
activities due to the continuing investments in the growth  between january 1, 2017 and december 31, 2017 the num­ the authorized capital of delivery hero ag as of decem­
of the group, primarily marketing investments, the change  ber of shares increased from 463,711 to 182,498,900 in the  ber 31, 2017 consists of 130,729,010 shares (december 31, 
in cash and cash equivalents  mainly consists of the follow­ course of eight capital increases. as of the reporting date,  2016: 175,444 shares).
ing developments: 20,300 shares (previous year: 5,400) are held as treasury 
shares.  c) capital reserves
cash inflows dh’s capital reserves increased by € 1,078.4 million in the 
—  ipo € 467.9 million (refer to section i. 03.) the nominal amount is € 1.00 per share. the subscribed  reporting year; this is mainly attributable to the following 
—   naspers financing round € 301.4 million   capital of delivery hero ag as of december 31, 2017 was  circumstances: 
(refer to section a. 01.)  fully paid up. 
—   capital increase in december 2017 € 360.1 million  —   € 301.4 million from the naspers financing round 
(refer to section a. 01.) the change in subscribed capital is summarized below: (refer to section a. 01.).
—   contribution of the premium from issuing new shares 
cash outflows   in the course of the ipo as of june 30, 2017, of 
eur 2017
—   shareholder loan settlements € 273.0 million   € 464.3 million net of related transactions costs of 
(refer to section f. 13.)   € 15.3 million (refer to section a. 01.). 135
subscribed capital on january 1 463,711
—   repayment bank loan € 118.5 million   —   contribution of the premium from issuing new 
(refer to section f. 10.) thereof treasury shares –5,400  registered shares in the course of the capital increase 
—   acquisition of the carriage group € 84.8 million   issuances for non-cash contribution 3,079 as of december 6, 2017, of € 348.4 million net of 
(refer to section d. 02.). issuances for cash contribution 29,493,373  transaction cost (€ 3.3 million) (refer to section a. 01.).
—   in connection with the conversion of delivery hero 
capital increase from company funds 152,538,737
refer to the consolidated statement of cash flows for a  gmbh into delivery hero ag on may 29, 2017 the 
registered capital on december 31  182,498,900
detailed presentation of the cash flows of the period. group has restructured its existing virtual share 
thereof treasury shares –20,300
option programs into a new uniform share option 
cash and cash equivalents were not subject to any signifi­ program. the new share option program is classified 
cant restrictions as of the reporting date.  as equity-settled award, whereas the previous 
the capital increase from company funds in june 2017  resulted   programs were classified as cash-settled, resulting 
09. equity in a reclassification of € 152.5 million from the capital reserves  in an overall effect of as of december 31, 2017 of 
the change in legal form from delivery hero gmbh  to subscribed capital. a multiple of 300 was applied to the  € 110.4 million on capital reserves, thereof 
(hrb 135090b) to delivery hero ag (hrb 187081b) became  number of shares existing immediately  prior to this capital  € 91.4 million reclassification from other provisions 
effective with entry in the commercial register on may 29,  increase.  (refer to section h. 01.).
2017. 
during the course of the ipo, 19.0 million new shares were 
the change in equity in 2017 is explained below. issued on june 30, 2017.
during the course of a capital increase, 10.5 million new 
shares were issued on december 6, 2017.
notes to the consolidated  f. disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position  annual report 2017
 financial statements
—   in 2017 various non-controlling interest (nci) were  the effect of movement in exchange rates in 2017 and 2016  f) non-controlling interests
acquired in connection with the simplification of   is mainly attributable to the appreciation of the euro as well  in 2017 various ncis were acquired in connection with the 
the group structure prior to ipo. most notably the  as devaluation of other currencies, most notably the  turkish  simplification of the group structure prior to ipo. further­
acquisition of nci from rgp korea ltd., including the  lira against the euro.  more in 2017 the remaining 16% nci of rgp korea ltd. was 
reclassification of the related put- liability, resulted   assumed to be acquired based on the put option right of 
in a net increase of capital reserves of € 13.9 million.  e) treasury shares the minority shareholder that became exercisable upon ipo 
despite the utilization of treasury shares in 2017 the num­ which will be settled in a fixed number of delivery hero ag 
contrary the capital reserve decreased due to the reclassi­ ber of treasury shares increased due to the capital increase  shares (refer to section h. 02. a)). accordingly negative nci 
fication to subscribed capital in connection with the c apital  from company funds to 20,300 as of december 31, 2017  of € 9.3 million was reclassified. remaining nci as of decem­
increase from company funds of € 152.5 million (refer to  (previous year: 5,400). ber 31, 2017, mainly relates to hungerstation llc, king fahad 
 section a. 01.). (ksa), (refer to section d. 03. b)).
d) retained earnings and other reserves 10. liabilities to banks
oci for the period developed as follows: all bank liabilities (as of december 31, 2016: € 116.4 million) 
became due immediately after the ipo on june 30, 2017 and 
136 attributable to the owners of the parent were repaid.
revaluation 
currency  reserve   non-   total other  11. pension provisions
 translation  for pension  controlling   comprehensive 
in accordance with statutory requirements the dh group 
eur million reserve  commitments total interests income (loss)
maintains defined benefit plans in korea and turkey. in 
 
korea, beneficiaries are entitled to one month salary for 
2017          
each year of employment after one year of continuous 
effect from foreign currency  
employment. the payment is measured on the average 
translation differences –97.6 – –97.6 –0.6 –98.2
monthly pay during the final three months of employment 
remeasurement of net liability  
from defined benefit plans – –0.3 –0.3 – –0.3 and is awarded as a lump-sum. the retirement age in korea 
is 60 years. in turkey, lump-sum termination indemnities 
total –97.6 –0.3 –97.8 –0.6 –98.4
are provided to each employee who has completed one 
 
year of service and whose employment is terminated due 
2016
to retirement or for reasons other than resignation or mis­
effect from foreign currency  
conduct.
translation differences –61.5 – –61.5 –0.2 –61.7
remeasurement of net liability  
from defined benefit plans – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1
total –61.5 0.1 –61.4 –0.2 –61.6
notes to the consolidated  f. disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position  annual report 2017
 financial statements
aside organic growth, the increase the provision is deter­ the present value of the defined benefit obligation changed  12. other provisions
mined using the projected unit  credit method. the actuar­ as follows: the decrease in other provisions in 2017 primarily results 
ial assumptions underlying the calculation are summarized  from the reclassification of the share-based payment 
below:       provision.
eur million 2017 2016
       as part of the conversion of delivery hero gmbh into a 
% 2017 2016 dbo on jan. 1 1.2 0.8
 german stock corporation on may 29, 2017, the group 
  addition due to   restructured its existing share-based compensation pro­
actuarial interest rate 1.50–8.42 2.45–8.42 business  combination 0.2 –
grams through combination into a new uniform stock 
salary trend 2.50–11.60 2.90–11.60 service cost 2.0 0.8 option program. before the restructuring, the share-based 
mortality – males 0.02 0.01–0.05 pension benefits –1.0 –0.3 programs were classified as cash-settled share-based pay­
mortality – females 0.02 0.01–0.02 interest expense – – ment arrangements. under the terms of the new share-
expected return on plan assets n.a. n.a. actuarial losses 0.1 –0.1 based compensation programs, the group plans to settle 
by means of equity instruments and classifies the program 
turnover rate 7.10–11.55 8.73–11.55 currency translation – –
as equity-settled share-based payment arrangement. 
dbo on dec. 31 2.4 1.2
accordingly, obligations for share based compensation of  137
sensitivities of the present value of the defined benefit  € 91.4 million as of may 29, 2017 was reclassified into  capital 
 obligations (dbo) are presented below: the dh group has no qualifying plan assets recognized in  reserves (refer to section h. 01.).
the consolidated statement of financial position as of 
     december 31, 2017 and 2016. as of december 31, 2017, provisions for share-based pay­
eur million 2017 2016
ment reflect the liability from the cash settled vsp korea 
  changes in obligations in the   awards (refer to section h. 01.). the dh group expects to 
dbo on the basis of the current 
statement of financial position including plan assets settle the liability over the next twelve months.
 discount rate assumption 1.9 1.2
    
dbo given an increase  
eur million 2017 2016 the allocation to the personnel provisions mainly relates 
in the d iscount rate  
of 1 percentage point 1.8 1.2   to bonuses and redundancy payments. dh group expects 
present value of   to settle the liability over the next twelve months.
dbo given a decrease  
pension obligations 1.9 1.2
in the d iscount rate  
of 1 percentage point 2.1 1.4 fair value of plan assets – –
dbo on the basis of the   thereof contributions  
current salary trend assumption 1.9 1.2 to plan assets – –
dbo given an increase   thereof payments  
in the salary trend   on plan assets – –
of 1 percentage point 2.1 1.4
obligations in the statement  
dbo given a decrease   of financial position on dec. 31 1.9 1.2
in the salary trend  
of 1 percentage point 1.8 1.2
pension payments of € 0.3 million are expected for the 
financial year 2018.
notes to the consolidated  f. disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position  annual report 2017
 financial statements
restoration obligations arise from lease arrangements for  13. trade and other payables
office premises in several countries. settlement of these  trade and other payables are composed as follows:
 liabilities is contingent on the underlying lease terms. the 
dh group expects to settle the liability over the next nine  restated  
eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
years.
 
current financial liabilities
as of the reporting date, contingent liabilities amount to 
€ 0.3 million. in the previous year, contingent liabilities  trade payables 28.8 38.9
amounted to € 2.8 million and related to legal disputes.  liabilities for outstanding 
invoices 20.4 11.5
the following table shows the change of other provisions  financial liabilities from  
put option on nci 2.6 26.5
and their breakdown by maturity date. 
finance leases 1.3 1.1
restoration  share-based  security deposits received 0.7 0.1
eur million obligation personnel payment others total
contingent purchase  
138   price obligation – 6.8
as of jan. 1, 2017 2.9 10.8 64.6 1.9 80.2
other payables 81.3 36.4
addition – 10.2 59.1 1.8 71.1
total current financial liabilities 135.1 121.4
utilized –0.4 –5.3 –8.6 –1.3 –15.6
non-current financial liabilities
reclassification – –5.1 –93.1 – –98.1
finance leases 2.4 3.5
reversed –0.8 –0.1 –9.6 –0.4 –10.9
trade payables 0.1 0.1
exchange rate differences – –1.5 –0.1 –0.1 –1.7
security deposits received 0.4 0.5
disposals due to deconsolidation – –0.3 – – –0.3
loans payable – 230.8
as of dec. 31, 2017 1.8 8.6 12.3 1.9 24.7
contingent purchase  
non-current 1.4 1.2 – 1.0 3.6 price obligation – 14.2
current 0.4 7.5 12.3 1.0 21.2 derivative financial instruments – 12.8
financial liabilities  
from put option on nci – 1.7
other – 1.6
total non-current liabilities 2.8 265.0
notes to the consolidated   f.  disclosures on the consolidated  statement of financial position  annual report 2017
 financial statements g. disclosures on the consolidated  statement of comprehensive income
financial liabilities from put options on nci consist of obli­ restated    g.  disclosures on the consolidated 
gations to acquire nci shares of some subsidiaries. the  eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016  statement of comprehensive income
decrease in 2017 resulted from the settlement of these   
current other liabilities    
 liabilities prior to ipo on june 30, 2017. 01. revenue
taxes and charges 11.2 8.5 revenue is composed as follows:
other payables amounting to € 81.3 million (previous year:  liabilities to employees 11.5 8.9
€ 36.4 million), consist mainly of liabilities to restaurants. received prepayments 6.7 7.0 change
deferred income 1.8 2.1   eur 
the contigent purchase price liability existing in the previ­ eur million 2017 2016  million %
social security liabilities 2.5 0.9
ous year (previous year: € 21.0 million) from the acquisition   
of e-food was settled during the financial year. other long-term employee   revenue from
benefits (current portion) 0.3  – 
commissions 408.0 217.3 190.7 87.8
miscellaneous 7.9 5.8
all loan payables (as of december 31, 2016: € 230.8 million)  delivery fees 47.3 15.9 31.4 > 100
became due immediately after the ipo on june 30, 2017 and  total current other liabilities 41.9 33.2
prime placings 41.5 29.9 11.6 38.7
were repaid. consequently, the related separated embed­
other 47.0 26.8 1 20.2 1 75.3 1
ded derivatives (as of december 31, 2016: € 12.8 million)  139
total 543.7 289.9 1 253.8 1 87.6 1
were derecognized. other long-term employee benefit liabilities arose during 
the acquisition of the carriage group, fly & company and  1 adjusted (refer to section e. 02. a)).
14. other liabilities appetito24 in 2017 (refer to section b. 02.). employees of 
other liabilities are composed as follows: these entities are entitled to payments contingent on per­
formance targets over an agreed service period. refer to section e. 02. a) for the development of revenue 
restated    per segment. aside organic growth in all segments, the 
eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
received prepayments relate to a gbp payment in decem­ acquisition of the foodpanda group as of december 31, 2016 
  ber 2016 for the intended sale of the hungryhouse group  positively contributed to the growth in revenue.
non-current other liabilities    
(refer to section d. 03. e)). changes in the liability between 
other long-term   december 31, 2016 and 2017 relate to foreign currency 
employee benefits 15.1  – 
movements.
miscellaneous 0.1 0.2
total non-current   liabilities to employees primarily relate to wages and sala­
other liabilities 15.2 0.2
ries of € 6.9 million (previous year: € 6.1 million) and unused 
vacations of € 4.5 million (previous year: € 2.7 million).
15. income tax liabilities
income tax liabilities arose in group entities with positive 
taxable income.
reimbursement claims from overpayment of trade and 
 corporation taxes are shown in income tax receivables.
notes to the consolidated  g. disclosures on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income  annual report 2017
 financial statements
02. cost of sales 03. marketing expenses aside organic growth, the acquisition of the foodpanda 
cost of sales are composed as follows: marketing expenses are composed as follows: group as of december 31, 2016 contributed to the increase 
of it expenses.
change change
  eur    eur  it expenses primarily relate to research and development 
eur million 2017 2016  million % eur million 2017 2016  million % (2017: € 29.0 million; 2016: € 16.5 million) of new features 
    and services that may be added to the group’s platforms 
delivery expenses –144.0 –50.8 –93.3 > 100 customer  but also to improvement and maintenance of the existing 
 acquisition –180.0 –108.3 –71.8 66.3
fees for   functionalities.
payment services –23.6 –11.4 –12.2 > 100 restaurant 
 acquisition –73.6 –56.2 –17.4 31.0
server hosting –7.6 –3.1 –4.4 > 100 05. general administrative expenses
amortization  
purchase   general administrative expenses are composed as follows:
of brands –21.7 –22.2 0.4 –2.0
of t erminals  
and other   expenses for  change
pos systems –6.1 –4.5 –1.6 36.5  write-downs on 
customer/    eur 
expenses for   
140 data transfer –6.0 –2.6 –3.4 > 100 supplier base –16.8 –15.9 –1.0 6.0 eur million 2017 2016  million %
other marketing   
goods and 
expenses –34.9 –20.1 –14.8 73.7 personnel 
 merchandise –2.6 –1.9 1 –0.8 1 40.7 1
expenses –63.7 –26.3 –37.5 > 100
total –327.1 –222.6 –104.5 46.9
call center 
audit and 
expenses –0.4 –0.5 0.1 –21.1
 consulting 
other costs   expenses –29.4 –21.8 –7.6 34.7
of sales –7.5 –2.4 –5.1 > 100 aside organic growth as well as increased competition in 
share-based 
total –197.8 –77.2 1 –120.6 1 > 100 1 certain markets in 2017, the acquisition of the foodpanda   payment expenses –69.5 –15.8 –53.8 > 100
group as of december 31, 2016 contributed to the increase 
rent and 
1 adjusted (refer to section e. 02. a)). in marketing expenses. lease expenses –12.5 –9.3 –3.2 34.1
other office 
aside organic growth in all segments, the acquisition of  04. it expenses expenses –9.1 –5.1 –4.0 78.1
the foodpanda group as of december 31, 2016 contributed  it expenses are composed as follows:
depreciation and 
to the increase in cost of sales. amortization –9.2 –4.5 –4.7 > 100
change
travel expenses –6.6 –3.8 –2.8 73.7
delivery expenses includes own rider personnel (2017:    eur 
other  
€ 66.0 million, previous year: € 29.2 million) but also exter­ eur million 2017 2016  million % (non-income) taxes  –6.2 –2.6 –3.6 > 100
nal riders and other operating delivery personnel (2017:   
tele­
€ 78.0 million, previous year: € 21.9 million). personnel  communications –2.5 –2.3 –0.3 11.0
expenses –33.1 –22.4 –10.7 47.9
miscellaneous –12.7 –9.5 –3.2 34.2
fees for payment services increased in 2017 as a result of  other  
non-personnel   total –221.5 –100.9 –120.6 > 100
general business growth and a higher online payment 
it expenses –12.0 –9.0 –3.1 34.0
share.
total –45.1 –31.3 –13.8 43.9
notes to the consolidated  g. disclosures on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income  annual report 2017
 financial statements
aside organic growth, the increase in general administra­ 07. other operating expenses 08. net interest cost
tive expenses is  affected by the acquisition of the  foodpanda   other operating expenses are composed as follows: net interest cost is composed as follows:
group as of december 31, 2016.
change change
share-based payment expenses in 2017 increased as a result    eur    eur 
of an increased number of awards granted following the roll- eur million 2017 2016  million % eur million 2017 2016  million %
over of minorities preceding the ipo as well as valuation     
effects. prior to the restructuring of the multiple share option  expenses for   interest and  
bad debt –15.3 –6.0 –9.3 > 100 similar income 3.7 0.9 2.8 > 100
schemes into the new stock option program of delivery  
hero ag (dh sop) in may 2017 (refer to section h. 01.), the  loss from disposal  interest and  
of subsidiaries –0.8 –2.5 1.7 –69.4 similar expenses –21.7 –34.0 12.3 –36.3
share option schemes were classified as cash-settled and 
losses on   total –17.9 –33.1 15.2 –45.8
therefore remeasured upon reclassification as equity settled 
the d isposal of  
awards.  fixed assets –0.6 –0.6 –0.1 9.5
impairment of 
for further information about the share-based payment  goodwill –4.0 –9.6 5.7 –58.8 the decrease in interest expenses results mainly from the 
program refer to section h. 01. miscellaneous –2.0 –1.2 –0.8 68.6 early repayment of the financial liabilities in connection  141
with the ipo on june 30, 2017 (refer to sections f. 10. and 
total –22.6 –19.9 –2.7 13.7
06. other operating income f. 13.). interest expenses relates mainly to the repaid loans.
other operating income is composed as follows:
09. other financial result
change the increase in expenses for bad debt in 2017 corresponds  other financial result is composed as follows:
  eur  with the increase in trade receivables as of december 31, 2017 
eur million 2017 2016  million % and results from increase in business activities and the acqui­ change
  sition of the foodpanda group as of december 31, 2016.   eur 
gain from disposal  eur million 2017 2016  million %
of subsidiaries 20.3 1.0 19.3 > 100
impairments of goodwill in 2017 relate to the cgu croatia   
miscellaneous 5.1 1.2 3.9 > 100 and cgu 9cookies amounting to a total of € 4.0 million.  losses from 
remeasurement  
total 25.3 2.2 23.2 > 100 goodwill impairment in the previous year related to the 
of other  
cgu pizza.de (refer to section f. 01. b)).  financial  liabilities –44.1 –10.7 –33.4 > 100
gains/losses from 
the disposal of foodpanda india in december 2017 r esulted  losses from disposal of subsidiaries include mainly losses  remeasurement  
in a disposal gain of € 20.3 million (refer to section d. 03. d)). from selling the group’s operations in kazachstan and  of derivatives 0.8 5.9 –5.1 –86.4
 georgia as well as the loss (€ 0.4 million) from the disposal  losses from 
of 51% in rpp (poland) in august 2017 that was  subsequently  derecognition of 
loans payable –3.6 – –3.6 > 100
accounted at equity.
notes to the consolidated  g. disclosures on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income  annual report 2017
 financial statements
change in connection with the acquisition of fly & company, korea  the effective income tax expense/(income) is reconciled as 
  eur  in october 2017 (refer to section d. 02.), the equity account­ follows:
eur million 2017 2016  million % ed 21% stake in fly & company was derecognized resulting 
foreign currency  in a disposal gain of € 1.4 million.   
gains/losses –27.4 8.7 –36.1 > 100 eur million 2017 2016
gains/losses from  the 2017 result from equity-accounted investees results   
derecognition of   primarily from restaurant partner polska sp. z.o.o. and  earnings before income taxes –336.4 –202.3
equity-accounted  fly & company. the remaining stake in fly & company  income tax using the 
investees  2.5 –0.9 3.3 > 100  company’s domestic tax rate  
was acquired in october 2017 (refer to section d. 02. b)). the 
result from  (2017: 30.18%; 2016: 30.18%) 101.5 61.1
2016 result from equity-accounted investees related  mainly 
 equity-accounted  adjustments    
investees –1.6 –5.1 3.5 –69.1 to fly & company but also to takeeateasy, belgium, which 
deviations between  
impairment of  was impaired in this period. the  company’s domestic  
equity-accounted  and f oreign tax rates –7.3 –3.9
investees – –7.1 7.1 –100.0 10. income taxes
non-deductible  
total –73.4 –9.3 –64.1 > 100 expenses or income for income taxes are broken down as  operating expenses –29.7 –9.4
142 follows: tax-exempt income 2.6 1.4
tax effects from adding and 
the losses from remeasurement of other financial liabilities  change
deducting for local taxes –1.5 –0.9
relate to liabilities resulting from put options on ncis as well    eur 
effects from partnerships –0.1 –
as contingent purchase price obligations. in 2017 this items  eur million 2017 2016  million %
effects from the non-recognition 
further includes a loss of € 4.8 million from the remeasure­ income tax 
of deferred tax assets on tax loss 
ment of financial liabilities that were subsequently settled  expense/(income) –1.7 11.0 –12.7 > 100 carryforwards –51.6 –31.6
with equity instruments. current income 
effects from the recognition/
taxes –13.9 –10.5 –3.4 32.3
non-recognition of deferred tax 
the gains/losses from remeasurement of derivatives relate  2017 income taxes  –13.8 –10.5 –3.3 31.0 assets on temporary differences –4.7 –4.8
to separated embedded derivatives all of which were  prior period  previous-period  
derecognized in 2017 when the respective loan liabilities  income taxes –0.1 – –0.1 > 100 deferred income taxes 2.2 1.0
were repaid. the losses from the derecognition of the loans  deferred income  previous-period  
payable represent the  difference between the carrying  taxes 12.2 21.5 –9.3 –43.2 current income taxes –0.1 –
amount of the respective  liabilities and the repayment  2017 income taxes  10.0 20.5 –10.5 –51.2 effects from  
amounts. prior period  consolidation measures 5.9 16.6
income taxes 2.2 1.0 1.2 > 100 effects of equity-accounted 
investees –0.4 –1.5
foreign currency gains/losses in 2017 predominantly result­
ed from the appreciation of euro in connection with inter­ effects of goodwill impairment –1.0 –2.9
company loan agreements and foreign currency balances. permanent differences –17.0 –12.7
other tax effects –0.6 –1.5
income tax expense/(income) –1.7 11.0
notes to the consolidated  g.  disclosures on the consolidated statement of comprehensive income   annual report 2017
 financial statements h. other disclosures
the tax rate applied to determine the expected tax income  ly the foodora virtual share and the foodora option pro­ measurement of fair values
corresponds to the tax rate of delivery hero ag and com­ grams entitled the beneficiaries to payments contingent  the grant date fair value of the dh sop awards was deter­
prises the tax rate for corporation tax inclusive of solidar­ on the virtual share price performance of several individu­ mined on the date of reclassification from cash-settled to 
ity surcharge of 15.83% and the trade tax rate of 14.35%. ally defined operating foodora subsidiaries. the vsp i-vi,  equity settled share-based payment awards on may 29, 2017, 
foodora virtual share and foodora option program were  using an option pricing model (black-scholes  model). the 
in addition to the income taxes referred above, discon tinued  classified as cash settled. as result of the restructuring into  key inputs used in the measurement of the fair value were 
operations had an income tax income in 2017 of € 0.4 million  the dh sop, the beneficiaries received option rights, enti­ as follows: share price of € 23.39, volatility of 36.21%, exer­
(previous year: income tax expense of € 0,2 million).  tling them to subscribe for shares in delivery hero ag sub­ cise price of € 1 to € 18, weighted average expected life of 
ject to certain conditions. all other terms and conditions  37 months, and a risk-free interest rate of 0.0%. the expect­
remained substantially the same. the awards vest gradual­ ed volatility was derived by applying a standard peer group. 
h. other disclosures ly over a period of 48 months subject to individual cliff pro­ the share price was derived from the naspers financing 
visions of 12 to 24 months. if a beneficiary leaves the com­ round that took place in may 2017. the measurement result­
01. share-based payments pany before completing the vesting requirements, the  ed in the weighted average fair value of € 13 per option.
the dh group has been operating share-based payment  individual forfeits its rights under the program.  
programs since 2011. the beneficiaries of the share-based  at december 31, 2016 the previous cash-settled awards were 
payment programs are members of management bodies  before the replacement, the share-based programs listed  also measured using an option pricing model (black-scholes  143
of the dh group. above were classified as cash-settled share-based payment  model). the key inputs used in the measurement of the fair 
arrangements. under the terms of the new dh sop, the has  values were as follows:
during the reporting period some of the existing share- an option to settle in equity instruments or in cash. the 
based compensation programs were restructured into a  group plans to settle by means of equity instruments and  foodora  foodora 
dh vsp vsp option
uniform stock option program. in addition, a new virtual  classifies the program as an equity-settled share-based pay­
shares program (vsp) was introduced in 2017. ment arrangement. in the event of certain exit events (e.g.   
share-price (k eur) 5.3 3.3 3.3
a change of control), the program conditions provide for a 
dh stock option program (dh sop) cash settlement by the group. however, the occurrence of  volatility (%) 40 50 50
terms and conditions such an event is currently considered u nlikely.  weighted average exercise  408   70 
as part of the conversion of delivery hero gmbh into a ger­ price (eur/share) 1–5,000 (1 or 723) (1 or 723)
man stock corporation on may 29, 2017, the group restruc­ as a result, the replacement of the previous programs was  weighted average  
expected life (months) 32 45 41
tured its share-based compensation programs by combin­ accounted for as modification whereby the former cash- 
ing the existing six virtual shares programs (vsp i-vi), the  settled awards were reclassified into equity-settled awards.  risk-free rate (%) 0,0 0,0 0,0
foodora vsp and the foodora option program into a new,  on the date of reclassification, the liability in the amount  weighted average fair value 
uniform stock option program “dh sop”. the former six  of € 91.4 million was recorded in capital reserves reflecting  per option (eur) 3,015 2,898 2,852
vsps granted to the beneficiaries the right for a cash pay­ the fair value of the granted awards at the modification 
ment contingent on the virtual shares price development  date to the extent the services were received.
of delivery hero ag (former delivery hero gmbh). similar­ the fair value of the liabilities as of december 31, 2016 was 
€ 57.4 million, thereof € 47.5 million for dh vsp, € 2.0 million 
for foodora vsp and € 7.9 million for foodora option.
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
reconciliation of outstanding share options measurement of fair values
the grant date fair value was determined using an option 
2017 2016 1 pricing model (black-scholes model). the key inputs used 
number of  weighted  average   number of   weighted  average   in the measurement of the fair value were as follows: share 
options  exercise price options  exercise price price on grant dates in q4 2017, volatility of 44%,  weighted 
  average strike price of € 16.88, weighted average  expected 
outstanding as of january 1  29,464  2,223 (1 – 5,000)   11,406  1,824 (1 – 4,500)  life of 36 months, and a risk-free interest rate of 0.0%. 
awards not participating in the replacement 2 –2,094   1.00   –   –  expected volatility was derived by applying a standard peer 
outstanding as of january 1   group. the measurement resulted in the  weighted average 
(reflecting share split of 1: 300 effective june 12, 2017)  8,211,000   7.41 (1 – 17)   –   –  fair value of € 12.65 per option.
forfeited during the year –799,725  14.72 (1 – 17)  –2,338  3,570 (1 – 4,500)
granted during the year  2,539,125  12.95 (1 – 18)   20,396  2,601 (1 – 5,000)  reconciliation of outstanding options
exercised during the year –245,900  5.46 (4 – 6)   –   – 
weighted 
outstanding at december 31  9,704,500  11.13 (1 – 18)   29,464  2,223 (1 – 5,000)   average 
number of   exercise price 
exercisable at december 31  70,000   3.51   –   – 
144 options (eur)
1  2016 comparative information subsume vsp i-vi, foodora virual share awards and foodora awards.
 
2  two beneficiaries did not participate in the replacement of existing awards into the dh sop in may 2017. one individual was settled during the reporting period.  
the remaining awards, classified as equity settled, vest over a period of 48 months. an expense of € 0.3 million was recognized for the period between may 2017   outstanding as of jan. 1, 2017 – –
and december 31, 2017.
forfeited/expired  
during the year – –
total expense for the period was € 64.9 million in 2017 (pre­ certain conditions. under the terms of the vsp, the group 
granted during the year 258,600 16.88
vious year: € 13.3 million, thereof € 3.4 million for dh vsp;  has an option to settle in equity instruments or in cash. the 
exercised during the year – –
€ 2.0 million for foodora vsp; and € 7.9 million for foodora  group plans to settle by means of equity instruments and 
outstanding as of dec, 31, 2017 258,600 16.88
option). at december 31, 2017, the weighted average expect­ classifies the program as an equity- settled share-based pay­
ed life is 18 months. ment arrangement. 
virtual share program (vsp) 2017 the awards vest gradually over a period of 48 months, sub­ the options outstanding at december 31, 2017 had a strike 
terms and conditions ject to individual cliff provisions of 12 to 24 months. if a ben­ price in ranging from € 16.67 to € 17.67 (previous year: n.a.) 
in the fourth quarter of 2017, dh group initiated a new vsp  eficiary leaves the company before completing the vesting  and a weighted-average contractual life of 36 months 
2017. virtual shares entitle the beneficiaries to a compen­ requirements, the individual forfeits his/her rights under   (previous year: n.a.).
sation based on the appreciation in dh ag shares over  the program.
strike price as specified in individual contracts, subject to  total expense for the period is € 0.5 million in 2017  (pre vious 
year: n.a.).
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
other share-based compensation arrangements the option program is accounted for as an equity-settled  share-based compensation arrangements  
rgp korea share-based payment arrangement.  settled in 2017
the vsp korea exists since 2014. the awards vest  gradually  in 2017 the restaurant partner polska sp. z.o.o. (rpp) (poland) 
over a period of 48 months and are accounted for as a  the program includes two tranches. the vesting period for  and pedidosya (uruguay) share-based compensation pro­
cash-settled share-based payment arrangement. the total  tranche 1 is up to december 31, 2018, and the vesting  period   grams were settled. these programs were accounted for as 
expense for the period amounts to € 7.0 million (previous  for tranche 2 up to december 31, 2019. the vested purchase  cash-settled share-based payment arrangements. the fair 
year: € 2.9 million). at december 31, 2017 the liability was  rights can be exercised between december 31, 2019, and  value of the respective liabilities at december 31, 2016 was 
€ 12.3 million (previous year: € 5.3 million). march 31, 2020, and will expire after this time period.  € 0.2 million for rpp and € 1.6 million for pedidosya. the 
total expense under these programs recognized in 2017 was 
e-food greece total expense for the period is € 0.8 million in 2017 (pre- € 1.8 million (previous year: € 1.3 million).
on may 2, 2015 ecommerce business 10 s.à r.l. granted the  vious year: € 1.4 million).
senior executives of ofd online delivery services ltd (ofd)  02. financial instruments
options for shares in ofd. the option program allows  a reconciliation of outstanding share options of other share 
senior executives to participate in the performance of ofd.  based compensation arrangements is presented below. a)  fair value disclosures
the tables below show the carrying amounts and fair v alues 
of financial assets and financial liabilities, including their  145
rgp korea e-food levels in the fair value hierarchy. 
weighted    weighted   
average exercise  average exercise   the following abbreviations are used for the measurement 
number of   price per share   number of   price per share  
categories:
options  in eur options  in eur
 
—  lar: loans and receivables
outstanding as of jan. 1, 2016  1,990  1.00 70 18.29
—  afs: available for sale
forfeited during the year –650  1.00 – –
—  flaac: financial liability at amortized cost
granted during the year 615  1.00 – –
—   fvtpl: financial instruments at fair value  
outsanding as of dec. 31, 2016  1,955  1.00 70 18.29 through profit or loss
forfeited during the year –191  1.00 – –
granted during the year  –  – – –
oustanding as of dec. 31, 2017  1,763  1.00 70 18.29
exercisable at dec. 31, 2017  1,494  1.00 – –
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
dec. 31, 2017
measured at  
measured at amortized cost fair value
classification  fair value   
eur million  pursuant to ias 39  carrying amount fair value carrying amount hierarchy  total 
 
non-current financial assets
investments afs 28.8 n.a. n.a. 28.8
loans granted lar 1.8 1.8 3 1.8
security deposits lar 0.8 0.8 3 0.8
other financial assets   31.4   –   31.4
current financial assets            
receivables against payment service providers lar 37.0 n.a. n.a. 37.0
trade receivables lar 36.7 n.a. n.a. 36.7
other receivables lar 15.1 n.a. n.a. 15.1
146
trade and other receivables   88.8   –   88.8
cash and cash equivalents   627.3 n.a. –   627.3
total financial assets   747.5   –   747.5
non-current financial liabilities            
trade payables flaac 0.1 0.1 3 0.1
finance lease payables n.a. 1 2.4 2.4 3 2.4
security deposits received flaac 0.4 0.4 3 0.4
trade and other payables   2.8   –   2.8
current financial liabilities            
trade payables flaac 49.2 n.a. n.a. 49.2
finance lease payables n.a. 1 1.3 n.a. n.a. 1.3
security deposits received flaac 0.7 n.a. n.a. 0.7
financial liabilities from put option on nci flaac 2.6 2.6 3 2.6
other payables flaac 81.3 n.a. n.a. 81.3
trade payables and other financial liabilties   135.1 –    135.1
total financial liabilities   137.9   –   137.9
1 classification and measurements of finance lease payables meet the requirements of ias 17 leases.
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
dec. 31, 2016
measured at  
measured at (amortized) cost fair value
classification  fair value   
eur million  pursuant to ias 39  carrying amount fair value carrying amount hierarchy  total 
non-current financial assets
investments afs 2.5 n.a.   n.a. 2.5 
loans granted lar 1.9 1.9 3 1.9
derivative financial instruments fvtpl 1.0 3 1.0
security deposits lar 1.3 1.3 3 1.3
other financial assets 5.7 1.0 6.7
current financial assets
receivables against payment service providers lar 10.6 n.a. n.a. 10.6
trade receivables lar 28.6 n.a. n.a. 28.6
security deposits  lar – n.a. n.a. –
other receivables lar 11.5 n.a. 3 11.5
147
trade and other receivables 50.7 – 50.7
cash and cash equivalents 228.9 228.9
total financial assets 285.3 1.0 286.3
non-current liabilities
liabilities to banks flaac 116.4 119.0 – 3 116.4
trade payables flaac 0.1 0.1 3 0.1
finance lease payables n.a. 3.5 3.5 3 3.5
security deposits received flaac 0.5 0.5 3 0.5
derivative financial instruments fahft – 12.8 12.8
contingent purchase price obligation fvtpl – 14.2 14.2
loans payable flaac 230.8 228.5 230.8
financial liabilities from put option on nci flaac 1.7 1.7 3 1.7
other financial liabilities flaac 1.6 1.6 3 1.6
trade payable and other payables 238.1 27.0 265.2
current financial liabilities
trade payables flaac 50.4 n.a. n.a. 50.4
finance lease payables n.a. 1 1.1 n.a. n.a. 1.1
security deposits received flaac 0.1 n.a. n.a. 0.1
contingent purchase price obligation fvtpl – 6.8 3 6.8
financial liabilities from put option on nci flaac 26.5 26.5 3 26.5
other financial liabilities flaac 36.4 n.a. n.a. 36.4
trade payables and other payables 114.5 6.8 121.3
total financial liabilities 469.0 33.8   502.9 
1 classification and measurements of finance lease payables meet the requirements of ias 17 leases.
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
the fair value information for investments that are mea­ there are no contingent purchase price obligations result­ shares and was reclassified as equity. due to a complex pay 
sured at cost is not disclosed because their fair value is not  ing from business combinations as of the reporting date.  off structure resulting from the embedded derivative, the 
reliably measurable. furthermore, the fair value is not dis­ the fair values of this type of financial instrument were esti­ group designated this  liability  at fair value through profit 
closed for some current financial assets and current finan­ mated in previous periods taking into account the under­ or loss. the key inputs into the fair value measurement of 
cial liabilities, as they were not measured at fair value  lying contingency as agreed with the seller in a particular  this liability were financial and operational key performance 
because their carrying amount is a reasonable approxima­ business combination. indicators of the subsidiary as well as fair value changes in 
tion of fair value due to their short-term nature. the fair  delivery hero ag shares.
values of some non-current financial assets approximate  in addition, the group incurred a liability resulting from a 
their carrying amount because there were no significant  put option on non-controlling interests (nci) of rgp korea  the reconciliation of level 3 instruments measured at fair 
changes in the measurement input, since their fair value  ltd. during the reporting period. the liability became sub­ value is as follows:
was determined upon initial recognition.  sequent to the ipo in a fixed number of delivery hero ag 
 
when the group adjusts the carrying amount of the finan­
cial liabilities resulting from the put options on nci, the  assets liabilities
measurement of the revised estimated future cash flows is  separated  separated  contingent 
148 mainly based on financial and operational key performance    embedded  embedded   purchase price  liability from put 
eur million  derivatives  derivatives obligations option on nci
indicators of the relevant subsidiaries. the measurement 
is made at each reporting date and as a result closely   
as of jan. 01, 2016 2.9 19.2 9.7 –
approximates the fair value through profit or loss measure­
ment. additions 0.3 –    
disposals –1.7 –    
level 3 financial instruments measured at fair value gains recorded in profit or loss – 6.5    
total gains and losses from the change in level 3 instru­ losses recorded in profit or loss –0.5 – –11.3  
ments measured at fair value are recognized in other finan­
as of dec. 31, 2016 1.0 –12.8 21.0  –
cial result. 
additions – – – 20.9
disposals –0.7 –11.7 –30.8 –44.1
there are no separable embedded derivatives as of the 
reporting date. in previous periods, the fair value of the  gains recorded in profit or loss – 1.1 – –23.2
separable embedded derivatives was determined using an  losses recorded in profit or loss –0.3 – –9.8  
option pricing model.  as of dec. 31, 2017 – – – –
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
the net gains and losses recognized for individual measure­ b) c hanges in liabilities arising from  
ment categories pursuant to ias 39 are as follows: financing activities
changes in liabilities arising from financing activities were 
net income (loss) by measurement category as follows in the reporting period:
     
eur million 2017 2016 liabilities   trade and   finance   
eur million to banks 1 other payables 1 lease liabilities total
 
lar – –  
restated balance at jan. 1, 2017 115.4 243.6 4.6 363.6
afs – –
proceeds from loans and borrowings  –  25.0  –  25.0
fvtpl (assets) –0.3 –0.5
repayment of borrowings  –118.5 –273.8  –  –392.3
fvtpl (liabilities) –31.9 –4.9
interest paid –2.2 –9.0 – –11.2
flaac –14.2 0.5
payment of finance lease liabilities  –   –  –1.2 –1.2
total –46.4 –4.9
total changes from financing cash flows –120.7 –257.7 –1.2 –379.6
liability related changes        
149
gains and losses related to lar measurement category  new finance leases  –   –  0.2 0.2
excludes impairment losses and interest income. the net  interest expense 5.0 11.8 – 16.8
result of the flaac measurement category includes gains  fair value changes related to  
and losses on derecognition as well as remeasurements of  embedded derivatives 0.3 –1.1 – –0.8
the carrying amounts due to changes in future estimated  loss on derecognition  –  3.6  –  3.6
cash flows. balance at dec. 31, 2017  –   –  3.7 3.7
1 the carrying amount includes separated embedded derivatives.
c) risk management d) credit risk
the dh group is exposed to credit risk, liquidity risk and  the credit or default risk is the risk that the business part­
market risk, especially interest rate, foreign exchange risks  ners are unable to fulfill their payment obligations. as in 
and price risk. the dh group actively monitors these risks  the previous year, such risks mainly relate to current trade 
and manages them using a risk management system. the  receivables from a broad base of customers, mainly restau­
risk management function is exercised in the governance,  rants. the dh group is not exposed to a major default risk 
risk & compliance (grc) department. from any single customer. the dh group monitors the 
default risk and, as in the previous year, manages it  actively 
by making any necessary credit checks and by optimizing 
the payment process. 
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
the aging of trade receivables is as follows: type of liability
contractual cash flow
thereof  thereof past due as of the reporting date, but not impaired (in days)   carrying 
 neither past  eur million amount total < 1 1 – 5
carrying  due nor   
eur million amount impaired < 30 30 – 60 61 – 90 91 – 120 > 120 as of  
  dec. 31, 2017        
as of dec. 31, 2017               trade payables 49.3 49.3 49.2 0.1
trade receivables 36.7 28.2 4.6 1.9 1.2 0.4 0.5 other payables 81.3 81.3 81.3 –
as of dec. 31, 2016               financial liabilities 
trade receivables 28.6 23.5 2.6 0.5 0.6 0.3 1.1 from put option  
on nci 2.6 2.6 2.6 –
security deposits 
impairment losses for trade receivables changed as follows: at december 31, 2017, the group held € 627.3 million (pre­ received 1.1 1.1 0.7 0.4
vious year: € 228.9 million) as cash and cash equivalents at 
total 134.3 134.3 133.8 0.5
allowance account  banks. most of these balances are held with banks which 
 
150   are rated a+ to bbb+. as of  
eur million dec. 31, 2016        
  the dh group cooperates with known online payment pro­ liabilities to banks 116.4 118.5 – 118.5
jan. 01, 2016 –5.6 viders, such as mastercard, paypal and adyen. the receiv­
trade payables 50.5 50.5 50.4 0.1
change for the year –6.3 ables from online payment providers amounted to 
security deposits 
€ 37.0 million at december 31, 2017 (previous period: 
utilised 2.6 received 0.6 0.6 0.1 0.5
€ 10.6 million). they are short-term and carried very low 
dec. 31, 2016 –9.3 other payables 38.0 38.0 36.4 1.6
credit risk at the reporting date. 
change for the year –15.4 contingent 
 curchase price 
utilised 10.8 e) liquidity risk  obligations 21.0 21.0 21.0 –
dec. 31, 2017 –14.0 as a result of the naspers financing round in may 2017, the 
financial liabilities 
ipo in june 2017 as well as the capital increase in decem­ from put option  
ber 2017, the company has significantly increased its cash  on nci 28.2 28.2 26.5 1.7
all other financial assets are neither past due nor impaired.  and cash equivalents and reduced external financing.  loan liabilities 
the maximum default risk corresponds to the carrying  including 
 separated 
amount of the financial assets. the following table presents contractual (undiscounted) 
 embeded 
interest and principal payments for the dh group’s finan­
 derivatives 243.6 273.8 – 273.8
cial liabilities. the maturity is based on the contractual pay­
total 498.3 530.6 134.4 396.2
ment terms.
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
f) market risk  as of december 31, 2016, the sensitivity of fair value mea­ until the repayment of all bank and shareholder loans in 
group entities are exposed to currency risk in particular  surements to changes in the relevant market prices was as  2017 (refer to sections f. 10. and f. 13.) the group was subject 
with regard to loan obligations denominated in foreign  follows: to external covenants from loans, which were not breached 
 currencies and intercompany receivables and payables. the  either in 2017 or in the previous year. 
following table shows the effects on profit or loss that  effect on profit or loss
 
would result if the foreign currencies had appreciated or  eur million +10% –10% the capital management is using the metrics cash and cash 
depreciated by 10% as of the reporting date.   equivalents, net debt and debt to equity, which are p resented 
separable embedded derivatives –0.7 0.9 below:
changes contingent purchase price obligation –0.3 0.3
    
dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
   
03. capital management  
eur million +10% –10% +10% –10%
cash and cash equivalents –627.3 –230.9
for the purpose of the dh group’s capital management, 
 
eur-krw 7.7 –7.7 6.4 –6.4  capital includes subscribed capital, capital reserves and all  current and  
non-current liabilities 313.5 739.9
other equity reserves attributable to the owners of the par­
eur-try –2.8 2.8 –0.1 0.1
ent. the primary objective of the dh group’s capital man­ net debt –313.8 509.0 151
eur-gbp 3.2 –3.2 1.5 –1.5
agement is to safeguard the group’s ability to continue as  equity 1,720.8 892.2
eur-usd 0.2 –0.2 –13.0 13.0
a going concern in order to finance the growth strategy and  debt to equity (%) –18.2 57.1
uyu-usd –0.1 0.1 –1.4 1.4 to reduce the cost of capital of the group. 
eur-pln – – 1.2 –1.2
the capital management strategy, including policies and  04. earnings per share
processes of capital management, is unchanged over the  basic earnings per share were calculated based on the net 
in the previous year some of the loans drawn by the group  prior year. however, during 2017 substantial capital mea­ loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted- 
had floating interest rates. accordingly a 1% higher market  sures to strengthen equity (refer to section f. 09.) and to  average number of ordinary shares outstanding (in thou­
interest rate would have led to an effect on 2016 profit or  improve net debt were taken. management further restruc­ sands). all figures for the shares include the effect of the 
loss of negative € 0.8 million, a 1% lower market interest rate  tured the existing equity-settled share option programs in  share split at a ratio of 1:300, which was carried out in the 
would have no effect on 2016 profit or loss due an interest  may 2017 into a uniform dh sop plan that will be settled  second quarter of 2017.
floor.  in equity of delivery hero ag (refer to section h. 01.).
at the reporting date, there were no instruments measured 
at fair value. 
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
change 05. disclosures on the cost of sales method
2017 2016 absolut % the dh group classifies expenses by their function referred 
to as the cost of sales method. included in these expenses 
 
consolidated loss for the period from continuing operations eur million –338.1 –191.3 –146.8 76.7 are: expense for employee benefits of € 319.3 million in 2017 
(2016: € 113.6 million) and expenses for depreciation and 
loss from continuing operations attributable to  
non-controlling interests eur million –2.9 –7.5 4.5 –60.6 amortization of € 49.2 million in 2017 (2016: € 43.1 million). 
loss from continuing operations attributable to  
shareholders eur million –335.2 –183.8 –151.3 82.3 06. headcount
number in  the dh group employs an average of 12,882 people in the 
weighted average number of shares issued thousands 157,734 118,091 39,643 33.6 current financial year (2016: 6,848 employees). the distribu­
diluted and basic earnings per share from   tion by employee groups can be derived from the  following:
continuing operations eur –2.12 –1.56 –0.56 36.5
loss from discontinued operations eur million –10.0 –3.6 –6.4 > 100 average number of employees by group
consolidated loss for the period from continuing and     
discontinued operations a ttributable to shareholders eur million –345.1 –187.4 –157.7 84.1 2017 2016
152 number in   
weighted average number of shares issued thousands 157,734 118,091 39,643 33.6 delivery 7,129 3,698
diluted and basic earnings per share from   sales 3,209 1,135
discontinued operations eur –0.06 –0.03 –0.03 100
office admin 1,316 753
diluted and basic earnings per share from  
marketing 522 740
continued and discontinued operations  eur –2.19 –1.59 –0.60 37.8
it 604 449
management 102 73
weighted-average number of ordinary shares (basic) the following equity instruments were not taken into  total 12,882 6,848
account in determining the diluted earnings per share 
    
thousands 2017 2016 because their effect would have been antidilutive.
total personnel expenses in 2017 for continued operations 
issued ordinary shares   number of potential ordinary shares amount to € 237.8 million (2016: € 132.1 million) and discon­
at 1 january 139,113 118,343 tinued operation amounted to € 13.1 million (2016: 
    
effect of treasury shares held –960 1,620 thousands dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016 € 7.8 million).
effect of shares    
issued for the year 19,581 1,368 share-based payments 11,040 9,328 total personnel expenses from continuing and  discontinuing 
weighted-average number of  escrow loan – 595 in 2017 include social security contributions of € 28.4 million 
ordinary shares at 31 december 157,734 118,091 (2016: € 18.4 million).
liabilities from put  
option on nci 79 1,358
total number of potential  
ordinary shares 11,119 11,281
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
07. total fee for the auditor other services in 2017 consist of advisory services in con­ measurement date
the auditor’s fees for the german entities of the group are  nection with the general data protection regulation and 
  
broken down by service as follows: consulting services in connection with contracts. dec. 31, 20173 dec. 31, 2016 1
 
   08. related party disclosures no. of shares owed 2 1,266,600 6,322
eur million 2017 2016
no. of tendered shares 2  1,177,909 4,515
  a) key management personnel transactions
fair value (eur million) 19.7 13.1
audit services 3.0 0.8
the members of the management board and the members 
expenses recognized  
other audit services 0.5 0.2 of the supervisory board (until may 2017 advisory board) 
(eur million) 9.2 4.9
tax advisory services 0.2 1.2 represent key management personnel. until may 2017, the 
1  in 2016 and until the transformation of the company into a german stock 
other services 0.4 – time of the transformation into a german stock corpora­  corporation in may 2017, key management personal were members of the 
tion (aktiengesellschaft), the members of the c-level man­  management, members of the advisory board and members of the c-level. 
total 4.0 2.3
2 data for 2017 reflects share split of 1:300 effective june 12, 2017. 
agement were also considered as key management person­ 3  information reflects information for the twelve months period ended 
nel. this change reflects shifted responsibilities and the   december 31, 2017 for the members of the management board. to the 
 members of the supervisory board no stock options were granted.
in 2017 the fees for audit services include services for the  assignment of representative  power to members of the 
previous year of € 0.9 million. management board only. correspondingly the remunera­ 153
tion of the c-level management is included until that date.  the members of the management board and the super-
audit services are provided for the audit of the consolidat­ the remuneration of the management board and the super­ visory board were considered as related parties of delivery  
ed financial statements and separate financial statements  visory board in 2017 is as follows: hero ag in accordance with ias 24. 
of delivery hero ag and other financial statements of sub­
sidiaries in germany. furthermore, integrated with the audit     b) members of the management board
eur million 2017 2016
procedures reviews of interim financial statements and anal­
yses of selected components of the compliance manage­   management board occupation
short-term employee benefits 1.0 1.1
ment systems were performed. niklas östberg chief executive officer
termination benefits – 0.2
emmanuel thomassin  chief financial officer 
other audit services in 2017 include the issuance of comfort  expenses related to  
letters and the audit of financial information in connection  share-based compensation 1 12.6 4.5
with the ipo. 1 for details see following illustration.
tax advisory services consist of consulting services in con­ the total remuneration of the members of the management 
nection with the analysis of transfer pricing structures and  board amounted to a total of € 1.8 million in the financial year 
the development of transfer pricing concepts between  2017, of which € 0.4 million related to the non-perfor­
group subsidiaries, consulting services in connection with  mance-related and € 1.4 million to the granting of new 
the preparation of tax returns as well as advisory services  performance- related components. the total remuneration 
in connection with social security legislation. of the super visory board in 2017 amounts to € 0.2 million. 
the advisory board discharged in the first half of the year 
did not receive any  remuneration.the stock options granted 
to current related parties are as follows:
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
c) members of the supervisory board
name  occupation other functions
dr. martin enderle  managing director   egmont foundation (member of the board of trustees),
chairman of allmyhomes gmbh cewe stiftung & co. kgaa (member of the board of trustees),
digi.me gmbh (managing director),
chaconne gmbh (managing director),
feegoo invest ug (managing director)
jeffrey lieberman managing director   elo7 ltd. (member of the board of directors),
deputy chairman of insight venture partners gainsight, inc. (member of the board of directors),
graph pad holdings, llc (member of the board of directors),
hellofresh se (chairman of the supervisory board),
hootsuite media inc. (member of the board of directors),
mimecast limited (member of the board of directors),
open education holdings inc. (member of the board of directors),
qualtrics international inc. (member of the board of directors),
sift science, inc. (member of the board of directors),
skinnycorp, inc. (member of the board of directors),
154 skinnycorp, llc (member of the board of directors),
tongal, inc. (member of the board of directors),
udemy, inc. (member of the board of directors)
jonathan green partner luxor capital group, lp bridebook limited (director),
eatstreet inc. (observer of the supervisory board),
marleyspoon gmbh (advisory board member)
georg graf von waldersee german certified chartered  ernst & young gmbh wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft  
accountant (chairman of the supervisory board),
evercore gmbh (member of the supervisory board),
scope management se (deputy chairman of the supervisory board),
scope se & co. kgaa (deputy of the supervisory board),
befesa s.a. (member of the board of directors)
patrick kolek group chief operating officer  makemytrip ltd (member of the board of directors)
of naspers limited
kolja hebenstreit and lukasz gadowski resigned from the 
supervisory board on june 3, 2017 and december 15, 2017 
respectively.
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
d) other related party transactions 09. lease relations and other financial obligations
other related party transactions comprise exchanges of dh  the group entered a number of office lease agreements in    
eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
group with related entities, primarily associated compa­ berlin and various other locations as well as vehicle and 
nies and entities controlled by key management personnel. office equipment lease agreements classified as operating   
less than one year 1.3 1.1
leases.
as of december 31, 2017 receivables and liabilities to other  more than one year and  
less than five years 2.4 3.5
related parties are composed as follows: future minimum lease payments from operating lease 
agreements, with the respective remaining terms, are  more than five years  –   – 
    presented in the following table: total 3.7 4.6
eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
  remaining term in years future cumulative obligations from other agreements 
 
financing committment to 
eur million < 1 1 – 5 > 5 total amount to € 3.2 million as of december 31, 2017 (previous 
 associates 1.0 –
  year: € 6.0 million). the other agreements primarily relate 
receivables from related entities 0.3 0.3
as of   to the provision of hosting, advertising and similar  services.
liabilities to related entities 0.1   –  dec. 31, 2017 15.0 37.2 15.3 67.5
as of   155
the result from transactions with other related parties is  dec. 31, 2016 7.3 24.8 15.6 47.7
composed as follows:
the expense for lease payments in the financial year 2017 
  amounted to € 12.7 million (previous year: € 8.6 million). in 
eur million 2017 2016
addition payments for subleases of € 0.2 million (pre vious 
  year: € 0.0 million) were received in 2017. the lease for the 
income from transactions from 
office premises in berlin grants a one-time contractual 
related entities 3.0 0.2
renewal option for further five years.
expenses from transactions with 
related entities 0.8  – 
the finance leases of the group primarily relate to office 
and operating equipment and with a net carrying amount 
income from transactions with related entities includes pri­ of € 3.3 million as of december 31, 2017 (previous year: 
marily recharges of ipo related transactions cost (€ 0.3 million)  € 4.2 million).
reflected in other operating income and gains from the 
assignment of vested shares to the group (€ 1.7 million) from  future minimum   present value of minimum  
lease payments interest lease payments
entities controlled by key management personnel.  
eur million dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016 dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016 dec. 31, 2017 dec. 31, 2016
furthermore in 2017 the group provided equity financing   
to associated companies in an amount of € 0.6 million. less than one year 1.4 1.3 0.1 0.2 1.3 1.1
more than one year and  
less than five years 2.5 3.7 0.1 0.2 2.4 3.5
more than five years – – – – – –
subtotal 3.9 5.0 0.2 0.4 3.7 4.6
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
10. l ist of shareholdings pursuant to section 313   share of capitals  share of capital 
of the german commercial code (hgb) name and registered office   as of 31.12.2017  functional  as of 31.12.2016 
of the affiliated company (%)  currency (%)
dh has an interest in the following fully consolidated 
 companies as of december 31, 2017: delivery hero germany gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero local verwaltungs gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
share of capitals  share of capital 
foodora gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 94.89
name and registered office   as of 31.12.2017  functional  as of 31.12.2016 
of the affiliated company (%)  currency (%) foodora holding gmbh  
(formerly delivery hero mena gmbh), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
 
germany foodpanda gmbh (holding asia), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
9cookies gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00 foodpanda gp ug (haftungsbeschränkt), 
 berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
bambino 78. vv ug (haftungsbeschränkt),  
berlin 100.00 eur 100.00 foodpanda gp ug (haftungsbeschränkt) & co. 
brilliant 21. verwaltungs kg (formerly brillant 
brillant 1421. gmbh (holding cee/cis), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
1424 gmbh & co. 21. verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
brillant 1424 gmbh & co. 13.   hungryhouse gmbh, berlin 1 100.00 eur 80.63
verwaltungs kg, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
156 jade 1343 gmbh & co. 10.  
brillant 1424 gmbh & co. 15.  
verwaltungs kg, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
verwaltungs kg, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
jade 1343 gmbh & co.  
delivery hero (hong kong) ug (haftungs  - 
vierte verwaltungs kg, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
be schränkt) & co. kg (formerly jade 1343 
gmbh & co. 15. verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00 juwel 199. vv ug (haftungsbeschränkt), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero (india) ug (haftungsbe- juwel 220. vv ug (haftungsbeschränkt), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
schränkt) & co. kg (formerly jade 1343  rgp local holding iv gmbh, berlin 90.76 eur 84.06
gmbh & co. siebte verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
rgp trust gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero (malaysia) (haftungsbe-
schränkt) & co. kg (formerly jade 1343  ssc volo gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 94.89
gmbh & co. dritte verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00 valk fleet deutschland gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero (pakistan) ug (haftungs be- valk fleet holding gmbh & co. kg, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
schränkt) & co. kg (formerly jade 1343 
gmbh & co. neunte verwaltungs kg), berlin  100.00 eur 100.00 valk fleet verwaltungs gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero (philippines) ug (haftungs be-  
schränkt) & co. kg (formerly jade 1343  international      
gmbh & co. 13. verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00 20140726 holding s.a r.l., luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero (singapore) ug (haftungs be- 20140824 holding s.a r.l., luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
schränkt) & co. kg (formerly jade 1343 
gmbh & co. fünfte verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00 20140825 holding s.a r.l., luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
delivery hero (taiwan) (haftungsbe-  appetito veinticuatro ltda., san jose (cr) 100.00 crc –
schränkt) & co. kg (formerly jade 1343  aravo s.a., montevideo (uy) 1 100.00 uyu 81.32
gmbh & co. zweite verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
baedaltong co. ltd., seoul (kr) 100.00 krw 100.00
delivery hero (thailand) ug (haftungs be-
schränkt) & co. kg (formerly jade 1343  carriage delivery services llc, abu dhabi (uae) 100.00 aed –
gmbh & co. verwaltungs kg), berlin 100.00 eur 100.00 carriage holding company ltd., abu dhabi (uae) 100.00 aed –
delivery hero austria gmbh, berlin 100.00 eur 100.00
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
share of capitals  share of capital  share of capitals  share of capital 
name and registered office   as of 31.12.2017  functional  as of 31.12.2016  name and registered office   as of 31.12.2017  functional  as of 31.12.2016 
of the affiliated company (%)  currency (%) of the affiliated company (%)  currency (%)
carriage logistics general trading company  food delivery hh bg ro holdco b.v.,  
llc, kuwait (kw) 100.00 sar – amsterdam (nl) 100.00 eur 100.00
carriage logistics spc, manama (bh) 100.00 kwd – food delivery holding 11. s.à r.l.,  
luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
carriage trading & services co. wll,  
doha (qa) 100.00 bhd – food delivery holding 12. s.à r.l.,  
luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
ceraon b.v., rotterdam (nl) 100.00 qar 100.00
food delivery holding 15. s.à.r.l.,  
click delivery cyprus limited, nicosia (cy) 100.00 usd 100.00
luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 94.89
click delivery digital processing of telematics 
food delivery holding 2. s.à r.l.,  
data societe anonyme, athens (gr) 100.00 eur 100.00
luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
clickdelivery s.a.c, lima (pe) 1 100.00 eur 77.17
food delivery holding 20. s.à r.l.,  
clickdelivery s.a.s., bogota (co) 1 100.00 eur 77.17 luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
damejidlo cz.s.r.o.   food delivery holding 21. s.à r.l.,  
(formerly e-aggregator s.r.o.), prague (cz) 100.00 pen 100.00 luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00 157
dámejídlo.cz. logistiks s.r.o. (formerly valk  food delivery holding 5. s.à r.l.,  
fleet s.r.o.), prague (cz) 100.00 cop 100.00 luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00
deliverme technologies inc (hurrier),   food panda philippines inc., philippines (phl) 100.00 php 100.00
toronto (can) 100.00 czk 94.89
foodarena gmbh, biel (ch) 49.202 chf 48.46
delivery hero fz-llc, dubai, (uae) 100.00 cad –
foodonclick.com/jordan private  
delivery hero n.v., amsterdam (nl) 100.00 aed – shareholding company, amman (jr) 100.00 jod 100.00
delivery hero sweden ab (formerly online  foodonclick-com fz-llc, dubai (uae) 100.00 aed 100.00
pizza norden ab), stockholm (se) 100.00 eur 100.00
foodora ab, stockholm (se) 100.00 sek 94.89
dhh i spc (difc) ltd., dubai (uae) 100.00 sek –
foodora australia pty ltd. (formerly-
dhh ii spc (difc) ltd., dubai (uae) 100.00 aed – suppertime australia pty), sydney (aus) 100.00 aud 94.89
digital services xxxvi italy srl, milan (ita)  100.00 aed 94.89 foodora finland oy formerly r-sc  
internet services finland oy) helsinki, (fi) 100.00 eur 94.89
donesi d.o.o., banja luka (bih) 100.00 eur 100.00
foodora france sas, paris (fra) 100.00 eur 94.89
donesi d.o.o., podgorica (mne) 100.00 bam 100.00
foodora inc. (canada), toronto (can) 100.00 cad 94.89
eatoye (pvt) limited, karachi (pk) 100.00 eur 100.00
foodora norway as, oslo (nor) 100.00 nok 94.89
ecommerce business 10 s.à. r.l.,  
luxembourg (lu) 100.00 pkr 100.00 foodpanda (b) sdn bhd,  
bandar seri begawan (brn) 100.00 bnd 100.00
emerging markets online food delivery  
holding s.a r.l., luxembourg (lu) 100.00 eur 100.00 foodpanda bangladesh ltd., dhaka (bgd) 100.00 bdt 100.00
establishment of abdullah al mutawa (ksa) 100.00 eur – foodpanda bulgaria eood, sofia (brg) 100.00 bgn 100.00
fly & company inc., seoul (kr) 100.00 krw 21.00 foodpanda co. ltd., bangkok (tha) 100.00 thb 100.00
food basket elektronik i̇letişim gıda ticaret  foodpanda hk ltd., hong kong (hk) 100.00 hkd 100.00
ltd. şti, nikosia (cyprus) 100.00 try 100.00
foodpanda malaysia sdn. bhd., jalan (msy) 100.00 myr 100.00
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures  annual report 2017
 financial statements
share of capitals  share of capital  share of capitals  share of capital 
name and registered office   as of 31.12.2017  functional  as of 31.12.2016  name and registered office   as of 31.12.2017  functional  as of 31.12.2016 
of the affiliated company (%)  currency (%) of the affiliated company (%)  currency (%)
foodpanda ro srl, bucharest (ro) 100.00 ron 100.00 repartos ya s.a, buenos aires (ar) 100.00 ars –
foodpanda singapore pte. ltd. singapore (sgp) 100.00 sgd 100.00 repartos ya s.a, montevideo, (uy) 100.00 aed –
foodpanda taiwan co. ltd.,   restaurant internet solutions dmcc,  
daan dist taipei (twn) 100.00 twd 100.00 dubai (uae) 63.00 krw 63.00
hungerstation llc, dammam (ksa) 63.00 sar 63.00 rgp korea ltd., seoul (kr) 100.00 hkd 84.06
hungerstation spc ltd., dubai (uae) 63.00 aed 63.00 rocket food limited, sheung wan (hk) 100.00 pkr 100.00
hungryhouse holdings ltd., london (gb) 1 100.00 gbp 80.63 r-sc internet services pakistan (pvt) limited, 
karachi (pk) 100.00 sgd 100.00
hungryhouse.com ltd., london (gb) 100.00 gbp 80.63
singapore-dine private limited,  
inversiones cmr s.a.s, bogota (co) 1 100.00 cop 77.17
singapore (sgp) 100.00 eur 100.00
inversiones delivery hero cmr s.a.  
slm finland oy, vantaa (fi) 100.00 brl 100.00
(formerly hellofood hallo essen hollesen s.a.), 
quito (ec) 1 100.00 try 77.17 subdelivery ltda., são paulo (br) 1 100.00 omr 81.32
158
lokanta net elektronik i̇letişim gıda   talabat electronic services company l.l.c., 
ticaret a.ş., istanbul (tr) 100.00 eur 100.00 muscat (om)  100.00 kwd 99.00
luxembourg investment company 43 s.à r.l.,  talabat general trading & contracting 
luxembourg (lu) 100.00 hkd 100.00  company w.l.l, sharq (kw) 100.00 aed 100.00
maidan limited, hong kong (hk) 100.00 eur 100.00 talabat middle east internet services  
company l.l.c, dubai (uae) 100.00 qar 99.00
mjam gmbh, vienna (at) 100.00 aed 100.00
talabat qfc llc, doha (qa) 100.00 sar –
mobile solutions experts llc, dubai (uae) 100.00 usd 100.00
talabat restaurants company l.l.c. 
mobile venture latin america inc.,  
riyadh (ksa)  100.00 qar 99.00
panama (pa) 100.00 krw –
talabat services company l.l.c. doha (qa)  100.00 bhd 100.00
npot incorporation’s , seoul (kr) 84.06 eur 84.06
talabat services company l.l.c. manama (bh)  100.00 czk 99.00
ofd online food delivery services ltd.,  
nicosia (cy) 100.00 eur 100.00 viala kft, budapest (hu) 100.00 huf 100.00
online delivery promotion of internet   volo ds xxxvi 9 gmbh  
services société anonyme, athens (gr) 100.00 egp 100.00 (formerly cm foratis 12 vv gmbh), vienna (at) 100.00 eur 99.00
otlob for restaurants reservations   volo netherlands b.v., amsterdam (nl) 100.00 eur 99.00
services s.a.e, cairo (egy) 100.00 hrk 100.00
yemek sepeti (dubai) b.v., amsterdam (nl) 100.00 eur 100.00
ozon media d.o.o., zagreb (hr) 100.00 ars 100.00
yemek sepeti elektronik i̇letişim tanıtım 
pagos ya s.a., buenos aires (ar) 100.00 brl 100.00 pazarlama gıda sanayi ve ticaret a.ş., istanbul 100.00 try 100.00
pedidosjá ltda., são paulo (br) 1 100.00 usa 81.32 yogiyo media company ltd., seoul (kr) 100.00 krw 84.06
pedidosya s.a. (formerly kinboy s.a.),     1 d ue to the application of the anticipated acquisition method, the legal share ownership stated here may  
montevideo (uy) 1 100.00 ars 81.32 deviate from the minority interests in the consolidated financial statements according to ifrs.
pedidosya s.a., buenos aires (ar) 1 100.00 clp 81.32   2 c onsolidation of foodarena gmbh based on contractual and call option rights.
pedidosya spa, santiago (cl) 1 100.00 rsd 81.32
plotun d.o.o., krusevac (srb) 100.00 uyu 100.00
notes to the consolidated  h. other disclosures   annual report 2017
 financial statements i. subsequent events
the following companies were included as associates in the  as at january 31, 2018, delivery hero group acquired deliv­ trademark represents the deliveras brand used in greece. 
dh consolidated financial statements: eras s.a., greece (“deliveras”), a food delivery platform based  the fair value was calculated using the relief from royalty 
in athens. the entity operates a food delivery marketplace –  rate method.
name and registered office of the associated company offering vendor delivery services to end- customers. 
customer relationship represents the existing customer 
  share of  
% capital 2017 the acquisition of 100% of the shares in deliveras rep­ base of deliveras greece and is amortised over a useful life 
  resents a strategic investment in the greek market. the  of ten years. the fair value was derived using the multi 
hungry holding aps (dk) 24.50 shares acquired are representative of the voting rights. the   period excess earnings method.
restaurant partner polska sp. z.o.o. (pl) 49.00 total consideration for the acquisition is € 4.7 million. it 
includes a contingent consideration of € 1.5 million. the  goodwill consists primarily of not separable components 
takeeateasy.be sa, brüssel (be) 31.45
contingent consideration depends on the future perfor­ such as positive business prospects and employee know-
mance of the combined businesses; the maximum amount  how and is not deductible for tax purposes.
11. c orporate governance code of the contingency is € 2.0 million.
the management and supervisory boards of delivery hero ag  the fair value of the trademark and the contingent consid­
have issued a statement of conformity pursuant to the ger­ no significant transaction costs were incurred on the acqui­ eration has been measured on provisional basis and is 
man corporate governance code (section 161 of the german  sition.  subject to completion of the group’s valuation procedures. 159
stock corporation act (aktg)), which was published on the 
website of delivery hero ag in december 2017 (https://ir. fair values   berlin, april 24, 2018
at the date of 
deliveryhero.com/websites/delivery/english/4500/declara­
eur million acquisition
tion-of-compliance.html).  
 
 
trademark 0.1
i. subsequent events  
customer relationship 1.0
 
on january 2, 2018 the dh group made an investment of  trade and other receivables 0.1 niklas östberg  emmanuel thomassin 
usd 105.0 million for a minority stake in rappi, inc., a del­ provisions and liabilities –0.2 chief executive officer  chief financial officer
aware corporation, parent company of the rappi group.  trade payables –0.7
(“ rappi”). rappi is the leading on-demand and multi-verti­ deferred tax liabilities –0.3
cal delivery platform in latin america.
net assets –
fair value of consideration transferred 4.7 
on january 31, 2018 dh group sold its hungryhouse busi­
goodwill 4.7 
ness to just eat for gbp 240.0 million. as explained in sec­
tion d. 03. e) the business was classified as a discontinued 
operation in 2017 and 2016.
responsibility statement  annual report 2017
responsibility  
statement
we hereby confirm that, to the best of our knowledge and 
in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the 
consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view 
of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss 
of the group, and the combined management report 
includes a fair review of the group’s business development 
including its performance and financial position, and also 
describes significant opportunities and risks relating to the 
group’s anticipated development.
berlin, april 24, 2018
160 delivery hero ag 
 
 
niklas östberg  emmanuel thomassin
chief executive officer  chief financial officer
independent    annual report 2017
auditor’s report
independent  
auditor’s report
to delivery hero ag (until may 29, 2017: delivery hero gmbh),  —   the accompanying combined management report as   key audit matters in the audit of the 
berlin a whole provides an appropriate view of the group’s   consolidated financial statements
position. in all material respects, this combined man­ key audit matters are those matters that, in our profession­
agement report is consistent with the consolidated  al judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the 
report on the audit of the consoli- financial statements, complies with german legal  consolidated financial statements for the financial year from 
dated financial statements and of  requirements and appropriately presents the oppor- january 1, 2017 to december 31, 2017. these matters were 
the combined management report tunities and risks of future development. addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated 
financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opin­
opinions pursuant to section 322 (3) sentence 1 hgb, we declare that  ion thereon, we do not provide a separate opinion on these 
we have audited the consolidated financial statements of  our audit has not led to any reservations relating to the  matters.
delivery hero ag (until may 29, 2017: delivery hero gmbh),  legal compliance of the consolidated financial statements 
berlin, and its subsidiaries (the group), which comprise the  and of the combined management report.       impairment of intangible assets 
consolidated statement of financial position as of decem­  arising from  acquisitions  including 
ber 31, 2017, the consolidated statement of profit or loss and  basis for the opinions goodwill 161
other comprehensive income, the consolidated statement  we conducted our audit of the consolidated financial state­
of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash  ments and of the combined management report in accord- for information on impairment of intangible assets arising 
flows for the financial year from january 1 to december 31,  ance with section 317 hgb and eu audit regulation  from acquisitions including goodwill, please see sections 
2017, and notes to the consolidated financial statements,  no. 537/2014 (referred to subsequently as “eu audit regula­ b. 05. and f. 01. in the notes to the consolidated financial 
including a summary of significant accounting policies. in  tion”) and in compliance with german generally accepted  statements.
addition, we have audited the combined management  standards for financial statement audits promulgated by 
report of delivery hero ag (until may 29, 2017: delivery hero  the institut der wirtschaftsprüfer (institute of public audi­ the financial statement risk
gmbh), berlin, for the financial year from january 1 to  tors in germany) (idw). our responsibilities under those  intangible assets arising from acquisitions including good­
december 31, 2017.  requirements and principles are further described in the  will (trademarks, customer and supplier relationships, 
“auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated  goodwill) amounted to eur 1,207 million as of december 31, 
in our opinion, on the basis of the knowledge obtained in  financial statements and of the combined management  2017, which represents 59% of total assets and thus a con­
the audit, report” section of our auditor’s report. we are independent  siderable share of asset value.
of the group entities in accordance with the requirements 
—   the accompanying consolidated financial statements  of european law and german commercial and professional  intangible assets are tested for impairment if there are indi­
comply, in all material respects, with the ifrss as  law, and we have fulfilled our other german professional  cations that their value has declined. as well as this, cgus/
adopted by the eu, and the additional requirements  responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. in  groups of cgus to which goodwill has been allocated are 
of german commercial law pursuant to  section 315e (1)  addition, in accordance with article 10 (2) point (f) of the eu  subject to an annual impairment test. 
hgb (handelsgesetzbuch: german commercial code)  audit regulation, we declare that we have not provided 
and, in compliance with these requirements, give a  non-audit services prohibited under article 5 (1) of the eu 
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, and finan­ audit regulation. we believe that the evidence we have 
cial position of the group as of december 31, 2017, and  obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for 
of its financial performance for the financial year from  our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and 
january 1 to december 31, 2017, and  on the combined management report.
independent    annual report 2017
auditor’s report
to test for impairment, the carrying amount of the respec­ expected business and earnings development and the  our observations
tive cgu/group of cgus is compared with the recoverable  assumed long-term growth rates and the modelling of free  the underlying approach to impairment testing of intangi­
amount. if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable  cash flow in a sustainable status. we also reconciled this  ble assets arising from acquisitions (including the calcula­
amount, this indicates a requirement for impairment. the  information with the budget prepared by the management  tion method) is appropriate and in line with the accounting 
recoverable amount is the higher of the cgu/group of cgu’s  board and approved by the supervisory board. further­ policies to be applied.
fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. the report­ more, we evaluated the consistency of assumptions with 
ing date for impairment testing is november 30, 2017. external market assessments. the company’s assumptions and parameters used for meas-
urement are reasonable overall.
impairment testing is complex and based on a range of  furthermore, we evaluated the accuracy of the previous 
assumptions that require judgment. this includes the  forecasts by comparing the budgets of previous financial  the related disclosures in the notes are appropriate.
expected business and earnings development of the cgus/ years with actual results and by analyzing deviations. since 
groups of cgus for the next three years, the modelling of  changes to the discount rate can have a significant impact    acquisition of the carriage group
estimated surplus cash flow in a sustainable status, the  on the results of impairment testing, we compared the 
assumed long-term growth rates and the discount rate  assumptions and parameters underlying the discount rate,  for information on the acquisition of the carriage group, 
used.  in particular the risk-free rate, the cgu-specific risk pre- please see section d. 02. of the notes to the consolidated 
162 mium and the beta coefficient, with our own assumptions  financial statements.
based on the impairment tests conducted, the company  and publicly available data. 
identified a need to recognize impairment losses totaling  the financial statement risk
eur 4 million for the croatia cgu and the 9 cookies cgu.  to ensure the computational accuracy of the valuation mod­ on june 14, 2017, the delivery hero group acquired the car­
el used, we verified the company’s calculations on the basis  riage logistics general trading company llc (kuwait) with 
there is a risk for the financial statements that the impair­ of selected risk-based elements. its subsidiaries in uae, bahrain and qatar. the purchase 
ment losses as of the reporting date were not recognized  price amounted to eur 84.8 million. according to the pre­
at an appropriate amount. there is also the risk that the  in order to take account of forecast uncertainty, we inves­ liminary purchase price allocation and taking into account 
related disclosures in the notes are not appropriate. tigated the impact of potential changes in earnings perfor­ the net assets acquired of eur 5.0 million, this resulted in 
mance and the long-term growth rate on the recoverable  goodwill of eur 79.8 million.
our audit approach amount by calculating alternative scenarios and compar­
we evaluated the company’s assessment of whether there  ing these with the values stated by the company (sensitiv­ the acquisition involved earn-out agreements concluded 
were indications of impairment for significant intangible  ity analysis). with previous owners of the carriage group who are also 
assets arising from acquisitions. part of carriage group’s management and which are not 
finally, we assessed whether the disclosures in the notes  incorporated into the total purchase price. 
with the involvement of our planning and valuation  on the impairment of intangible assets arising from acqui­
experts, we have assessed the impairment tests in terms of  sitions were appropriate. this also included an assessment 
the appropriateness of the key assumptions and calcula­ of the appropriateness of disclosures in the notes on sen­
tion methods of the company for cgus/groups of cgus  sitivity in the event of a reasonably possible change in the 
selected according to risk considerations. for this purpose,  key assumptions used for measurement.
we discussed with those responsible for planning the 
independent    annual report 2017
auditor’s report
the acquired identifiable assets and assumed liabilities are  we evaluated how the earn-out agreements concluded with      recognition and measurement of the 
usually recognized at fair value pursuant to ifrs 3 on the  several previous owners of the carriage group as part of  modified stock option plan (sop)
date of acquisition. the company engaged an independent  the acquisition had been recognized in the statement of 
expert to determine and measure the identifiable assets  financial position. for information on the modified stock option plan (sop), 
acquired and the liabilities assumed.  please see section h. 01 of the notes to the consolidated 
we reconciled the total purchase price with the underlying  financial statements.
the identification and measurement of assets acquired and  purchase agreements and the evidence of payment.
liabilities assumed is complex and based on assumptions  the financial statement risk
of the management board that require judgment. the sig­ we assessed the competence, professional skills and impar­ as part of the conversion of delivery hero gmbh into a ger­
nificant assumptions concern the license fees utilized as  tiality of the independent expert engaged by delivery hero ag.  man stock corporation (aktiengesellschaft) on may 29, 2017, 
well as the cost of capital. recognition of the earn-out  we investigated the measurement methods used for their  the group transferred its existing, virtual stock option plans 
agreements in the statement of financial position also  compliance with the accounting policies. (vsp i-vi) to a new, standardized share-based payment pro­
entails complexity and the use of judgment. gram, dh sop.
the license rates utilized to measure the intangible assets 
there is the risk for the financial statements that the assets  were compared with benchmarks from relevant databases.  until this modification, the previous programs were classi­
acquired and liabilities assumed are identified improperly  we compared the assumptions and parameters underlying  fied as cash-settled share-based payment arrangements.  163
or measured inaccurately. there is also a risk for the finan­ the capital costs, in particular the risk-free rate, the market  under the terms of the new dh sop, the company is 
cial statements that the earn-out agreements have been  risk premium and the beta coefficient, with our own  required to settle the program in cash if certain exit events 
recognized inaccurately. there is also the risk that the dis­ assumptions and publicly available data. (e.g. change of control) occur. under all other circumstanc­
closures in the notes to the consolidated financial state­ es, the company has the option to settle the program either 
ments are not complete and accurate. to assess computational accuracy, we verified selected cal­ through issuing new shares or through cash settlement. 
culations based on risk criteria. finally, we assessed wheth­ occurrence of exit events is currently seen as unlikely and 
our audit approach er the disclosures in the notes regarding the acquisition of  the company intends to settle the program by issuing new 
with the involvement of our own valuation experts, we  the carriage group were complete and accurate. shares. 
assessed, among other things, the appropriateness of key 
assumptions and parameters as well as the identification  our observations the reorganization of the programs, from cash settlement 
and calculation methods used as part of the preliminary  the approach used at the acquisition of carriage group for  to equity settlement, was recognized as a modification as 
purchase price allocation and the accounting for the earn- identifying and measuring the assets acquired and liabili­ defined by ifrs 2. accordingly, the liability arising from the 
out agreements. to that end, we first gained an understand­ ties assumed is appropriate and in line with the accounting  programs at the date of the modification was reclassified 
ing of the acquisition by consulting employees of the  policies to be applied. the key measurement assumptions  to the capital reserve at the fair value at the date of reclas­
finance department and through an evaluation of the  and parameters are appropriate. the recognition of the  sification of eur 91.4 million. the beneficiaries’ length of 
 relevant agreements.  earn-out agreements in the statement of financial position  service in the company was taken into account to deter­
is consistent with the applicable accounting policies.  mine the fair value at the date of reclassification.
the description in the notes to consolidated financial state­
ments is complete and appropriate.
independent    annual report 2017
auditor’s report
the program was measured at the date of reclassification  at the date of modification, with the involvement of our  our observations
according to the black scholes model.  valuation specialists, we assessed the computational accu­ the approach used for recognition (including classification) 
racy and ifrs conformity of the company's valuation mod­ and measurement of the dh sop share-based payment pro­
classification of share-based payment programs including  el and the appropriateness of the key assumptions that it  gram is appropriate and in line with the accounting poli­
choice of settlement and measurement of the programs is  includes. to assess computational accuracy, we verified  cies to be applied. the key assumptions and parameters 
complex and rests on assumptions of the management  selected calculations based on risk criteria. are appropriate.
board that are based on judgment. the key assumptions 
relate to the reference price for a share at the date of reclas­ we compared the share price used with the documenta­
sification, the volatility used, the expected remaining term  tion on the naspers financing round. we compared the vola- other information
of the options and the capital costs. tility used, the expected remaining term of the options and 
the assumptions and parameters underlying the capital  management is responsible for the other information. the 
there is a risk for the financial statements that the option  costs with our own assumptions and publicly available data.  other information comprises the annual report, with the 
program has been classified inappropriately. there is also  exception of the audited consolidated financial statements 
a risk that the modification has been recognized incorrect­ through a comparison of the numerical data of the  and combined management report and our auditor’s 
ly and that the program at the date of modification has  redeemed share-based payment programs with the numeri- report. 
164 been measured incorrectly. cal data of the share-based payment programs (dh sop) 
that replaced the redeemed programs, we investigated the  our opinions on the consolidated financial statements and 
our audit approach completeness of the numerical data for the measurement  on the combined management report do not cover the 
we first gained an understanding of the share-based pay­ of the dh sop share-based payment program. on a sam­  other information, and consequently we do not express an 
ment programs by consulting employees of the finance  ple basis, we examined the agreements with the benefi- opinion or any other form of assurance conclusion there­
department and through an evaluation of the relevant  ciaries concerning the modification. on. 
agreements.
we examined the adjustment of the numerical data as of  in connection with our audit, our responsibility is to read 
referring to the contractual and legal basis, we evaluated  december 31, 2017, by verifying the underlying facts and by  the other information and, in so doing, to consider  whether 
the classification of the dh sop and the recognition of the  inspecting documents. the other information
programs’ modification. we evaluated the company’s 
assessment of the probability of occurrence of an exit event. —   is materially inconsistent with the consolidated 
 financial statements, with the combined management 
report or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or 
—  otherwise appears to be materially misstated. 
independent    annual report 2017
auditor’s report
responsibilities of management and the  requirements, and appropriately presents the opportuni­ reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not 
supervisory board for the consolidated  ties and risks of future development. in addition, manage­ a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with 
financial statements and the combined  ment is responsible for such arrangements and measures  section 317 hgb and the eu audit regulation and in com­
management report (systems) as they have considered necessary to enable the  pliance with german generally accepted standards for 
preparation of a combined management report that is in  financial statement audits promulgated by the institut der 
management is responsible for the preparation of the con­ accordance with the applicable german legal requirements,  wirtschaftsprüfer (idw) will always detect a material mis­
solidated financial statements that comply, in all material  and to be able to provide sufficient appropriate evidence  statement. misstatements can arise from fraud or error and 
respects, with ifrss as adopted by the eu and the addition­ for the assertions in the combined management report. are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, 
al requirements of german commercial law pursuant to  they could reasonably be expected to influence the eco­
section 315e (1) hgb and that the consolidated financial  the supervisory board is responsible for overseeing the  nomic decisions of users taken on the basis of these con­
statements, in compliance with these requirements, give a  group’s financial reporting process for the preparation of  solidated financial statements and this combined manage­
true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial posi­ the consolidated financial statements and of the combined  ment report.
tion, and financial performance of the group. in addition,  management report.
management is responsible for such internal controls as  we exercise professional judgment and maintain profes­
they have determined necessary to enable the preparation  sional skepticism throughout the audit. we also:
of consolidated financial statements that are free from  auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of  165
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. the consolidated financial statements  —   identify and assess the risks of material misstatement 
and of the combined management report of the consolidated financial statements and of the 
in preparing the consolidated financial statements, man­ combined management report, whether due to fraud 
agement is responsible for assessing the group’s ability to  our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about  or error, design and perform audit procedures 
continue as a going concern. they also have the responsi­ whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole  responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence 
bility for disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going  are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud  that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis 
concern. in addition, they are responsible for financial  or error, and whether the combined management report  for our opinions. the risk of not detecting a material 
reporting based on the going concern basis of accounting  as a whole provides an appropriate view of the group’s  misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for 
unless there is an intention to liquidate the group or to  position and, in all material respects, is consistent with the  one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collu­
cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to  consolidated financial statements and the knowledge  sion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresenta­
do so. obtained in the audit, complies with the german legal  tions, or the override of internal controls.
requirements and appropriately presents the opportunities  —   obtain an understanding of the internal controls rele­
furthermore, management is responsible for the prepara­ and risks of future development, as well as to issue an audi­ vant to the audit of the consolidated financial state­
tion of the combined management report that, as a whole,  tor’s report that includes our opinions on the consolidated  ments and of arrangements and measures (systems) 
provides an appropriate view of the group’s position and  financial statements and on the combined management  relevant to the audit of the combined management 
is, in all material respects, consistent with the consolidat­ report. report in order to design audit procedures that are 
ed financial statements, complies with german legal  appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the pur­
independent    annual report 2017
auditor’s report
pose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of  formance of the group in compliance with ifrss as  we communicate with those charged with governance 
these systems. adopted by the eu and the additional requirements of  regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and 
—   evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies  german commercial law pursuant to section 315e (1)  timing of the audit and significant audit findings, includ­
used by management and the reasonableness of esti­ hgb. ing any significant deficiencies in the internal control sys­
mates made by management and related disclosures. —   obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regard­ tem that we identify during our audit.
—   conclude on the appropriateness of management’s  ing the financial information of the entities or busi­
use of the going concern basis of accounting and,  ness activities within the group to express opinions  we also provide those charged with governance with a 
based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a  on the consolidated financial statements and on the  statement that we have complied with the relevant inde­
material uncertainty exists related to events or condi­ combined management report. we are responsible  pendence requirements, and communicate with them all 
tions that may cast significant doubt on the group’s  for the direction, supervision and performance of the  relationships and other matters that may reasonably be 
ability to continue as a going concern. if we conclude  group audit. we remain solely responsible for our  thought to bear on our independence, and where applica­
that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to  opinions. ble, the related safeguards.
draw attention in the auditor’s report to the related  —   evaluate the consistency of the combined manage­
disclosures in the consolidated financial statements  ment report with the consolidated financial state­ from the matters communicated with those charged with 
and in the combined management report or, if such  ments, its conformity with (german) law, and the  governance, we determine those matters that were of most 
166 disclosures are inadequate, to modify our respective  view of the group’s position it provides. significance in the audit of the consolidated financial state­
opinions. our conclusions are based on the audit  —   perform audit procedures on the prospective infor­ ments of the current period and are therefore the key audit 
 evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s  mation presented by management in the combined  matters. we describe these matters in our auditor’s report 
report. however, future events or conditions may  management report. on the basis of sufficient appro­ unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about 
cause the group to cease to be able to continue as   priate audit evidence we evaluate, in particular, the  the matter.
a going concern. significant assumptions used by management as a 
—   evaluate the overall presentation, structure and con­ basis for the prospective information, and evaluate 
tent of the consolidated financial statements, includ­ the proper derivation of the prospective information 
ing the disclosures, and whether the consolidated  from these assumptions. we do not express a sepa­
financial statements present the underlying transac­ rate opinion on the prospective information and on 
tions and events in a manner that the consolidated  the assumptions used as a basis. there is a substantial 
financial statements give a true and fair view of the  unavoidable risk that future events will differ materi­
assets, liabilities, financial position and financial per­ ally from the prospective information.
independent    annual report 2017
auditor’s report
other legal and regulatory  german public auditor responsible  
 requirements for the engagement
further information pursuant to   the german public auditor responsible for the engagement 
article 10 of the eu audit regulation is marius sternberg.
we were elected as group auditor by the annual general 
meeting of delivery hero gmbh on may 19, 2017, as part of  berlin, april 25, 2018
the company’s being converted into a german stock cor­
poration (ag). we were engaged by the supervisory board 
on november 24, 2017. we have been the group auditor of  kpmg ag  
delivery hero ag (until may 29, 2017: delivery hero gmbh),  wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft
without interruption since the financial year 2017.
we declare that the opinions expressed in this auditor’s 
report are consistent with the additional report to the audit  (signature) sternberg  (signature) knorr
committee pursuant to article 11 of the eu audit regulation  wirtschaftsprüfer  wirtschaftsprüfer  167
(long-form audit report). (german public auditor)  (german public auditor)
 annual report 2017
 
further  
financial calendar page 169
imprint page 169
disclaimer page 171
information
168
try out our interactive table of contents.  
you will be directed to the selected page.
further information  annual report 2017
financial  
calendar
 
may 9, 2018 q1 quarterly statement 2018
june 6, 2018 annual general meeting in berlin
september 13, 2018 half-year report 2018
november 07, 2018 q3/9m quarterly statement 2018
     
imprint
    169
   
published by contacts  
 
delivery hero ag press  concept and design
oranienburger strasse 70 delivery hero ag kirchhoff consult ag, hamburg, germany
10117 berlin corporate communications www.kirchhoff.de
phone: +49 (0)30 5444 59 024 oranienburger strasse 70
e-mail: ir@deliveryhero.com 10117 berlin text
hrb 187081 b phone: +49 (0)30 5444 59 000 delivery hero ag, berlin, germany
e-mail: info@deliveryhero.com kirchhoff consult ag, hamburg, germany
investor relations
delivery hero ag
investor relations
oranienburger strasse 70
10117 berlin
phone: +49 (0)30 5444 59 024
e-mail: ir@deliveryhero.com
 
make your  
own experience
linkedin.com/company/deliveryhero
xing.com/companies/deliveryheroag
facebook.com/deliveryhero
instagram.com/deliveryhero
twitter.com/deliveryherocom
www.deliveryhero.com
further information  annual report 2017
171
disclaimer
this information also contains forward-looking statements. these statements are based 
on the current view, expectations and assumptions of the management of delivery hero 
ag (“delivery hero”). such statements are subject to known and unknown risks and uncer­
tainties that are beyond delivery hero’s control or accurate estimates, such as the future 
market environment and the economic, legal and regulatory framework, the conduct of 
other market participants, the successful integration of newly acquired companies and 
the realization of expected synergy effects, as well as measures by public authorities. if 
any of these or other uncertainties and imponderables materialize, or if the assumptions 
on which these statements are based prove to be incorrect, actual results could differ 
materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. delivery hero does not 
warrant or assume any liability that the future development and future actual results will 
be consistent with the assumptions and estimates expressed in this report. delivery hero 
does not intend or assume any obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect 
events or developments after the date of this report, except as required by law.    
 
due to rounding, it is possible that single figures in this and other documents do not add 
up exactly to the specified sum and that the percentages shown do not exactly reflect the 
absolute values to which they relate.    
 
this document is also published in german. in the event of discrepancies, the german 
version of the report shall take precedence over the english translation. 
we create an amazing takeaway experience.
oranienburger strasse 70
10117 berlin
germany
phone: +49 (0)30 5444 59 000
e-mail: info@deliveryhero.com
www.deliveryhero.com